"When we listen to music, we must refuse the idea that music happens only when the musician enters and picks up an instrument; music is also the anticipation of the performance and the noises of appreciation it generates and the speaking that happens through and around it, making it and loving it, being in it while listening. And so, when we refuse the call to order – the teacher picking up the book, the conductor raising his baton, the speaker asking for silence, the torturer tightening the noose – we refuse order as the distinction between noise and music, chatter and knowledge, pain and truth."
	•	Tapilapi invites SenseLab to play: a day for scene making and environmental collective assemblages
Please join us for a kind of collage party in the making, TOMORROW, TUESDAY July 28th at 12:00 or at 2:00pm or both times if it suits you well. At the BLACK BOX in the EV Building at Concordia University. EV OS3-845-855. Just take the elevator near the Maisonneuve and Mackay entrance, all the way down and it is there, you can’t miss it. 
Here are tentative working times so you can find your way in either for Session 1 or for the second:
12:00pm (Session 1) Launching meeting We will attempt to introduce you to our environment-making techniques and share with you some enabling constraints. Hopefully we will start playing and doing and assembling in a blink. We will then work with the make-your-own-scene proposition. 
1-2pm Go for lunch A fundamental part of working is eating and having lunch with the people we work or around the people we work. For that reason we will give 40 min. or an hour or so to go for lunch as a technique, also as a way to expand and mobilize the working affective cartographies of the work.
2:00pm (Session 2) Assembling – Stitching – Performing/Non-performing Basically a kind of putting together of the stuff in ways that can still leave room for the unexpected (don’t worry, it usually doesn’t work). We will play with ways of playing with stuff and ways of building a score in the making, we will rehearse and by the time the stuff is ready to perform itself and for itself we will still keep rehearsing as a porous proposal for the unfinished yet totally catalyzed and in its own concrescent state.
	•	I WANT TO SING TO YOU
Chant a capella par Althea Baird, Metro Square Victoria, Lundi 27 Juillet, 13h
	•	Duck Feet: A Nonsensical Soirée. Thursday, July 23rd 17h-19h @ FOFA
What: DUCK FEET is an atmosphere improvised collectively. Join us for wine and fizzy waters.
Where/When: in the FOFA courtyard from 5pm-7pm on Thurday, July 23rd. 
Bring: a nonsensical outfit or aspect to your outfit.