IS: My problem is that, yes, we can say that these are folds and that macroperception is misleading, etc. In political terms, that enables an interesting critical relation toward the procedures of those who know nothing of Leibniz, or James, but who take charge of our perceptions. But there is a danger of getting blocked in the register of critical truth. There is a terrible discrepancy between
the invention of procedures of capture on the one hand, and on the other the
rare instances where procedures are invented that have to do with what American activists call “reclaiming” and what I call the meso. In politics, I think that the question is less microperceptions than procedures, practices that are apt to produce new perceptions carrying new consequences, to produce collective assemblages of enunciation experimenting with ways of combining creation with an active, experimental taking into account of their milieu – a milieu that is by definition unhealthy – experimenting with how to “think through the middle,” through the milieu, in the way that collectives for direct nonviolent action have done, knowing that the cops will provoke in any case. The question of experimentation, or accountability as the Americans say, is situated at the level of the meso. I’m thinking of Haraway, and of course of Guattari’s cartographic practices. I like Etienne Souriau’s concept of  “instauration” (establishment, institution) very much because, as regards to the artist at work, it deploys a quite fabulous assemblage denying any power to the old conflict between determination and freedom ­­ a conflict that Guattari still grappled with in his struggle against structure. If a work  of art  can fail, as a practical matter, then entirely other questions are raised. The question of failure and success is eminently political. It’s a meso question, because it has nothing to do
with success in the macro, sociological, sense. And it certainly requires the micro, but without thematizing it. The contrast success/failure raises different questions, pragmatic questions, in experimental relation with milieus. Tournier and Deleuze’s Robinson, with his molecularization of perception, is certainly not insignificant
from  the political point of view.1  But Robinson’s relation to politics, his becoming,
in which all of the categories of perception molecularize, that relation has to be made. The thing is, perhaps it’s not the first that should be made. From my point of view, one of the first that should be made is precisely to respect this notion of the device (dispositif),  that is, the notion of assemblages, assemblages that are worked on and through, and which imply artifice, and are a matter for experimentation. This of course excludes any reference to the masses, to the differentiation between those who know and those who must be impelled into movement. But it also allows a distinction that concerns the political. An assemblage is political to the extent that those who participate in it both experiment with and experience its fabrication, fine­tune it and feel its effects,