I feel that Hardt and Negri inherited molecular politics, in the sense that I fear it, with their concept of the multitude. It’s a concept whose vocation is to announce the dissolution of  differentiations, of attachments, of all that gives capitalism its grip. It’s a concept that I feel is still constructed in the mode of what I call the Marxist conceptual theater, in which it is a question of identifying
the antagonistic force worthy of its historical role. Deleuze and Guattari critiqued
the theater of concepts and the theater of pychoanalytic roles. For my part, I critique the theater of Marxist concepts, whose crucial concern is: what is there that is not susceptible to being compromised by capitalism, to being captured by it? And as if by chance, what is implied always involves finishing capitalism’s work:  the destruction of attachments. The typical success of a meso device
would be to confer upon a situation the power to make those who are attached to it, in an a priori conflictual manner, think together. Not  overcome the conflict, but transversalize its terms. Careful – this is not an ideal. It’s an event, in which
one can recover the figure of the fold, and which cannot be discussed at the level of its general conditions. You don’t mimic attachments, and you  can’t replace them with collaborationist good will. The question can’t be simulated. What it has to do with, rather, is Guattari’s axiological creationism. What that requires is a Jamesian confidence, not a detachment. My own confidence in the event by which a situation can make people think that which concerns
them, by which a situation can escape the common destiny of being defined by
preexisting terms, by which it can make a “fold,” in other words acquire the power to situate those it rallies without converting to unanimous consensus ­­ this confidence is deeply rooted in my approach to the history of experimental inventions. The experimental situation has the power to rally, to transform the conflict of interpretations into a dynamic of controversy. The scientist as such is not terribly interesting. But I’m not sure  that Guattari isn’t throwing the baby out with the bathwater when he announces an ethico­aesthetic paradigm against the scientific paradigm. Objectivism is a poison that affects the sciences, just as the art  market is a poison proper to artistic practices ­­ neither more nor less. But in a controversy in the strong sense, in the inventive sense, the term objectivity has no purchase. The sciences are not a model. They are a very particular exemple of an original production of subjectivity occurring when a situation makes a fold, in other words forces those it rallies to think, imagine, create. The sciences also provide an example of how this success gets captured. The important point for me is that there is no success that can offer the wished­for guarantee of being uncapturable. This means that any success will be condemned a priori by those given over to suspicion. Such is the fate of any