anthropomorphic Gods of the City, who were honored as fearsome and as indifferent to our maneuvers of seduction. Gaia is not nature in need of protection. She will survive the ravages. Living things may well count on Gaia,
but what counts first and foremost are the bacteria, and they are something else
that exceeds us: an uncontrollable power upon which we depend. The numberless people of the bacteria completely exceeds us, responding with extraordinary inventiveness to our  antibiotics, not with the logic of lineages but rather one of the rhizome, a rhizome that traverses us. It is they, along with other microbes, that constitute the majority among the cells comprising this body we call our own. They are on Gaia’s scale, and like her, they always act and enter into action as powerful vectors of scientific deterritorialization, undoing disciplinary closures and the tree of life that has become the coat of arms of darwinism. To name Gaia is to name something that does not demand a response from  us, that is utterly deaf to our repentances. We are not responsible toward her. We are imprudent. We have been radically imprudent, which is a totally different idea than guilt. We can be guilty in relation to the polar bear, the Bengal tiger, and many other things besides. But in relation to Gaia the scene
I’m trying to stage, the scene of intrusion, is a setting forth  of a problem: there has been a grave imprudence, and we will not get ourselves out of it in crisis mode, like a bad moment we have to get through. What we need to do now is learn to compose with Gaia. Even if we succeed in avoiding barbarism, we won’t be able to say that the issue is settled. Gaia will never return to being a neutral condition in our history. She will never again be something we count on, she will always remain something with which we will have to compose. Gaia cannot be domesticated. She is material is the sense of being untameable by
human intentions ­­ a quite unprecedented figure of transcendence, implacable transcendence. We could say that our epoch is under the sign of a double transcendence, one implacable, the other irresponsible, one material, the other spiritual. Because capitalism is irresponsible, it is not equipped for this. It takes Gaia’s intrusion as an occasion for new strategies, new captures. And we can indeed talk about “spiritual” captures, in the sense of a production of powerlessness and its hold over us, and in the sense that it is a question of destroying what counts, of bringing into equivalence what counts, in the sense that above all else we must not hesitate, in the sense that it  is a question of seizing opportunities regardless of the consequences, etc. To speak of capitalism as materialist is the sad complaint of monotheistic transcendence. For me, to speak of the “spiritual” is to situate oneself in Guattari’s ethico­aesthetic field,
and I see the deliberate use of this denigrated word as a protection against bourgeois­scientistic triumphalism. Capitalism is a logic, and a logic is spiritual in type. Its logic takes holds of us, it is not an object of knowledge. One can learn to simulate the processes which compose Gaia, but it makes no sense to
simulate the capitalist logic, because all simulations feed right into it. We saw this with the financial markets: any simulation of functioning became an instrument for speculators, and immediately added itself to the functioning it described.