Deleuze said that his concepts were tools, but that doesn’t prevent many of our colleagues from  contenting themselves with paraphrase, with textual explanation. When I read this kind of text, such “sophisticated” texts, I feel the poison of feeling that I am not “up to level,” and that feeling renews in me in the commitment never to write texts like that. It happens to me from  time to time that I pick up a concept signed Deleuze as a tool. It’s an event, it means that I am able – as you  say, Brian, in your introduction to Parables for the Virtual – to extract it from  its place of birth  and transplant it. You have to do that. The transplant operation that I then become capable of is, as far I am concerned,
addressed only very secondarily to philosophers. What it does is target poisons of philosophical origin that anaesthetize capacities to think through concrete situations. If  when a transplantation has taken place I create my own concepts, they carry with them a vocation for intervention. The concept of “practice” for example is inseparable from  this vocation. It’s not a “pure concept,” as are
pre-individual singularities, or the crystal­image, or the pure form  of time. No, it’s always already engaged: always already taken up, as Guattari would say,  in an assemblage of constellations of values, phylums, etc., that are always displaying their vocation to “think through the middle / through the milieu.” Practice belongs to the meso, which means that it’s not a question of “absolute deterritorialization,” only of a relative deterritorialization capable of making practicioners think without sweeping them up into a witch’s flight of thought. That might well happen, but it’s not the problem that interests me. I want to create something that others can pick up on without becoming philosophers. And without being fascinated by philosophy. There is something formidable in
concepts signed Deleuze, formidable in the sense of the pharmakon, which can
be a remedy or a poison. It’s that they can fabricate little judges, who operate in the name of absolute deterritorialization or the body without organs, in a way that revives that old  refrain separating the elect from  the contemptible.