IS: I’d like to start with this issue of the molecular, which was so dear to Guattari. I originally trained as a chemist, and maybe that is why  the terms “micro” and “macro” don’t work  for me. I “understand,” but it doesn’t make me think. There are so many types of molecules. At one extreme, there is the hydrogen or water molecule, with either two or three atoms. At the other extreme, there are the biological macro­molecules. The point isn’t so much that they have more atoms. It’s that they pose entirely different problems, problems of knowledge, definite knowledge, and problems pertaining to the relation between the molecule and its milieu. A water molecule is  complicated, but the molecule­milieu relation is not thematized as being decisive to its understanding. With biological macro­ molecules, on the other hand, the molecule’s folding in space becomes important. This folding is not a theoretical question, because it occurs in an entirely specific milieu, following entirely specific temporal sequences, with multiple interactions. You can have the same sequence of amino acids as in a “biological” molecule that is active in metabolism, but the majority of foldings of which it is capable don’t produce a metabolic molecule. In short, the folding itself is something like a history. It’s a molecule­milieu history which obliges us to think through the “middle,” through the milieu (par le milieu), as Deleuze would say.  I like to bring up the biological macro­molecule because I am afraid that if we content ourselves with the opposition between the molecular and the molar we are almost inexorably led to maniacal modes of differentiation where the issue is always designating paths of salvation or perdition. The question of how to go from  the mode of description demanded by water molecules to the molar mode of description, where it’s a question of water that we can drink or swim in, is extremely complicated. It’s an open problem, not an opposition. I know that Deleuze and Guattari fought against anti­molar neo­moralism, especially in A Thousand Plateaus which, in contrast to Anti­Oedipus, insists on the need for caution, emphasizing experimentation over haste. There is a practical divergence at this point. In La sorcellerie capitaliste and Au temps des catastrophes (The Age of Catastrophes), I try to think “through” a particular