milieu that seems eager to leap with great appetite at any proposition allowing for a differentiation between the true and the illusory to be recreated. To paraphrase Deleuze paraphrasing Artaud, I try to think “before” the innumerable victims of this mania for oppositions, and to fabricate concepts that build in protections, ways of frustrating that which constantly rises up in defiance of all warnings. It seems to me that the macro­molecule is good protection in the
sense that implies certain delocalized interactions which require resistance to the
totality or the aggregate, but less in an oppositional way than in a way that makes perceptible the necessity of an etho­ecology, where the ethos of the molecule, that which it is capable of, cannot be dissociated from  its oikos, from the milieu requiring this ethos. In this connection, I’m more comfortable with the idea of a mesopolitics than a micropolitics. The coefficient of “polemical truth” associated with the micropolitical worries me. The idea of the “meso” is quite new in physics. Microphysics is well known, it’s the stuff of physicists’ dreams. The macro in physics is also familiar, it’s crystals, liquids, and bodies that can be characterized by general, measurable properties. But the meso is neither of these. It concerns not matter, but material. Why does glue stick? Why do metals tend to stress  and break? This is a science of the interstices and the cracks. It’s a science of defects. It is the kind of science where it is always a question of this material, rather than Matter, and which encounters “procedures,” like those of metallurgy. Why must the iron be beaten as long as it is hot? The macro is matter in general. Gas is marvellously “in general.” With the meso, on the other hand, it
is necessary in each instance to redefine topically how the relations between the micro and the macro are assembled. In other words, it’s about everything that the macro does not allow to be said, and everything that the micro does not permit to be deduced. No, the questions that must be asked are utterly specific. Questions which bring characters into existence. What is a crack? How does this propagate? How is that encountered? What brings this to a threshold, where it breaks? These are questions which demand the invention of beings, such as the crack, that are called for with a manner of being all their  own, and which enter more into narratives than into deductions. What also interests me is that this meso­knowledge reactivates the marvel of procedures of fabrication, as with metallurgy. Hammering, dunking the sword in cold water, all of the metallurgist’s tact, all that he “has an eye for,” has no micro or macro meaning. It is not for nothing that metallurgists have always had a special historical role  in relation to powers, forming initiatory clans. For me, the meso deterritorializes physics much more effectively than quarks, the Higgs boson, or black holes, which continue to lend themselves to the old reality/appearance opposition, or politically speaking, to the “you believe, we know.” The meso is a site of invention where the pragmatics of the question is much more alive, more vivid, more difficult to forget than the micro or the macro, which traditionally play a game of truth. The meso must create itself. And each time, the meso affirms its
co­presence with a mileu. This sticks ­­ that’s a relation to a milieu. This breaks, this
bends, this is elastic ­­ that implies an action undergone. Every material is a