Offering a means of thinking this intensive mode  of vision,  Massumi moves beyond specular models of identification and towards the same kind  of complexity of adjacent encounters that Fabre’s piece enacts. Distinguishing between ‘mirror-vision’ as a form of self-reflexivity and ‘movement-vision’ as a mode  of self-referentiality, Massumi points out that no matter how we contort ourselves, we can never  see ourselves in a mirror in the way that others  see us— in movement. We might  leap around and  still try to keep our eyes on the prize, but the result  will always be a blurred vision. Mirror-vision, or self-reflexivity, is thus  necessarily always static (and positional). Mirror-vision consists  not only in the necessarily static nature of our self-regarding gaze, but also in the way we imagine others think  of us--we  are clichés (clic) for other  people, limited in our becoming by the habits  of our roles. On the other  hand, movement-vision (or
self-referentiality), involves the body  as subject and object for itself, an
indetermination between the two; it is not reflective  because it includes (many) other  perspectives, producing a blur in the image. Here, bodily  objectivity coincides with what  Massumi calls “the body without an image (a mental picture or mirror image)  [as] an accumulation of relative perspectives and passages between them” (my emphasis). [4] Another term  for this is “event”.
Movement-vision is thus  fundamentally concerned with  questions of the felt
reality  of relations, not just with  the terms  of relation: “where movement occludes both subject and object” (Massumi, 2002: 57). The viewer in movement vision  is neither subject nor object, but virtual in that she is one with  the movement; Massumi describes this as “relationality, freed from its terms”, an externality of relation (2002: 58). In other  words, an intimation of difference rather than  resemblance. In the same way, Fabre’s piece intensifies the “objectivity” of its primary subjects  of enunciation, in order to explore and complexify the modality of subjectification through what  Guattari, reanimating