This is not to say that operating in a more macro, top-down manner, is wrong or should  not be undertaken.  It’s just  to say that if  it’s  done to the exclusion  of micropolitical  activity  it’s  mortifying,  even  when it’s  done for  survival’s   sake. Sometimes  there is   no  alternative  but  to  centrally  impose   certain   enabling constraints.  For  example,  I’d  be very  happy  if  the transition  to a renewable energy  future or  a global  redistribution  of  wealth  or  a non-growth  paradigm were  imposed  on the capitalist  system. But high-level  solutions  of  that kind  are only part  of the political equation, and it’s not the part that the affective politics we’ve 	been		talking	about 	specifically	addresses. 	Micropolitics	  is	not programmatic. It doesn’t construct and impose global solutions. But it would be naïve to think  that is  separate  from  that  kind of  macro-activity.  Anything  that augments  powers  of  existence  creates  conditions  for micropolitical flourishings. No  body flourishes without enough food and without health care. Micropolitical interventions  need macro solutions. But success  at the macropolitical level  is at best  partial without  a complementary  micropolitical flourishing.  Without it, the tendency is toward standardization. Since macropolitical solutions are generally applicable by  definition,  by  definition  they act  to curtail  the variety and exuberance	of	forms 	 of	life.		Macropolitical 	intervention 	targets	minimal conditions  of  survival.  Micropolitics complements  that by  fostering  an excess  of conditions  of  emergence. That  inventiveness  is  where  new solutions  start  to crystallize. The potentials produced at the micropolitical level feed up, climbing the slope  that macropolitics  descends.  Micropolitical  and macropolitical  go together. One is  never without  the other. They  are  processual  reciprocals.  They aliment  each  other. At  their   best, they are  mutually  corrective.  Even  macro solutions designed  to curtail  micropolitical  activity  often  end up feeding  it by making it a necessity  to invent new ways  of  getting by  and getting around. Creative variation is the only real constant of politics. Deleuze and Guattari often made this  point,  for example  in  their  slogan  that that the State  is  built  on what escapes it.