AB: At the CCA we were looking at the effects of the 1973  oil crisis on the built environment.  This research really  helped me formulate critical questions for the present.  When oil prices sky rocketed in '73 in Europe, North and South America, a really  interesting opportunity opened up. The basic infrastructures that made everyday life  possible  were  suddenly  under threat  of  total  collapse.  Unique things started happening: people riding their  bikes on the interstate, pedestrians crowding down-towns, people pulling out the old horse and carriage to ride  to work.    The  basic  separation  of  functions  that determined  post-war  urbanism came under threat.   Moreover, people re-discovered  solar panels, wind power and the insulating properties of the earth.   There emerged what seems to us like a tremendously  exciting  moment  of  experimentation  with  alternative infrastructures.  This experimentation cut across numerous sectors of society: from homesteader DIY'ers,  universities, the architectural profession,  even to President Carter propping up a solar panel on the roof of the White House. I  had to start asking, what  is all  of  this  change for?    Superficially,  these  experiments  often encountered  the “crisis”  as  a technological  problem  to be over  come.  When you leave  the level  of  questioning  here it  all  seems  quite  straightforward,  and also optimistic.   We  can simply  produce technological  solutions to what  are ostensibly  technical  problems.  Architecture,  as  a discipline,  is  so  often  mired  in this naive optimism — the disciplines myopia.  It became clear to me that there were other forces  driving  technological  experimentation.   For instance,  people started shoving their  suburban homes underground in order to save on heating bills.   The  temperature  below the surface  of  the earth is much more constant than above, eliminating  the drastic  temperature swings  brought  by seasonal changes.   There were plans for entire suburbs built  underground.   A number of these   houses   were   built   (and  still   exist   today)  especially   in   the  Midwest. Moreover, there were plans to build town house complexes, subsidized housing, prisons, offices, universities, all shoved underground.  In one sense this is a radical gesture. For instance, the formal arrangement of the landscape would be quite different, but they are still prisons, suburbs, and hospitals. This was precisely what was fascinating  to me:   what motivated  so  much "experimentation"  during  the oil crisis were forces seeking to find more economical means to preserve already existing and dominant social forms.   So in reality, technological and formal inventiveness in this crisis is put in the service of conservation, the suburbs remain the same,  the social  organization  of  the suburban  house remains  in  tact:  two,