AB: I  can’t  speak  for both of us at all, in this, but collaboration is really—I  don’t really  know about collaboration. I am always torn about whether it’s a lie or not, in  the sense  of  an ideal  sense of  true  collaboration.  Where does  collaboration actually  happen?  Is it  a matter  of  some kind  of  Platonic  union between  two souls, the creation of a unity,  helping out, skill sharing, etc? Sometimes it resolves pragmatic issues; if somebody has got time to do something that person does it. It's helpful  working  on large  scale  projects,  a project  that requires  people  with different skills, because we obviously work across media, from building structures to doing design to graphics,  we’re totally all over  the place with materials. We both have different  skill sets,  and sometimes it’s like if you  can do this you  do it because I can’t do it as well.   It also includes sharing ideas, pushing each other, getting stoked  about what we each  care and think  about and sometimes calling  each other  out on their  shit.    You  know, perhaps the most interesting thing about collaboration is conflict, how the fuck to deal with conflict, and how do you  think  about conflict or what conflict is.    What we might naively think  of as collaboration is often actually the honeymoon phase of collaboration, where it’s like two people,  three  people,  etc,  who are really  excited  about working together and everybody is really totally willing to compromise — it’s not even a question of compromise, it just works, as you are like new lovers, and all excited to touch each other,  and so  you hop right  into it. And then you  get over  this honeymoon period, and then it’s like “ugh, I don’t want it that way”, “but, I do”, and then well,  what do we do, what do we do about that?  That’s precisely when collaboration  gets  interesting  and really  difficult  and often  is  the point where I think to my self, “there’s no such thing as collaboration, it’s bogus”.