in Santa Cecília. Starts sleeping in the restaurant. Time passes,  and then comes the surprise of a love letter  that  calls for a return to the cerrado. [2] In Goiania, invests,  in infinite instalments, in the motorbike that allows for the delivery boy to work.  But the body  in crisis continues its life between wandering at night, booze  and  pills.  Boozes  a lot, drives the  motorbike drunk in the  city streets. Falls. The bridge is fifteen  meters high.  The accident puts  the body  in a coma, and  then  there  is the effort of returning to life. Help  is needed. Food needs  to be put into the mouth, the body  washed, ass cleaned. And then, the hard work of locomotion, of moving unaided, eating  unaided, speaking well.  With  the effort of re-education, has the chance  of working as a farm peon.  Takes care of cows and masturbates in the midst of the pasture. An exhaustive masturbation to satiate  the world which  tears the body.  A full world, a packed world which throws it away  from its petty  reality  of a life in the interior, between the roça [3] and  the city. Slips with  a cloth diaper in between the legs and  lets the anxiety come. A horniness which  wets everything, soaks the thighs. Sweats.  An entire day until  the exhaustion of the body.  Where  the hand can’t any longer,  fingers hurt, a cunt hurts, a dick hurts, a body hurts. Enough, the entire pasture already smells  like masturbation, the  anxiety  has  gone.  As a farm  peon  loses an arm and   makes   a  living.   Broken,  without the  arm  dilacerated  in  the  mowing machine, buys  a car with  the indemnity and  drives with  only  one arm.  Shits squatting over  the  latrine,  it comes  from  the  habit  of life in the  wilderness. Stutters while  reading in  public,  has  a  lot  of  difficulty in  thinking well,  a collapsed body.  A repressing gaze, mute,  without words, torments dreams. Screams  in such  a way  that  causes  deafness. Drinks  every  day,  as much  as necessary in order to forget  the  cancer  of someone close  and  his  fucked  up miserable life. There  is the embarrassment of waking up  all came  beside  her. Only  talks  of sex and  shouts the  premature ejaculation to the  seven  winds. Drinks  a lot, falls in the  gutter. In the  morning of the  following day,  beaten, robbed, sprawled on  the  street.  Goes  out  to  walk  the  night  and  carries  the carcasses  which  stink  in the pastures. But, on a random day,  finds  the animal alive. Starts  talking with  it, they  become  friends. Takes it home  as if it were  a carcass.  Puts  it in the kitchen. Pushes that  enormous horse,  all of it, inside  the house  which stinks of bone, lime and formaldehyde. Takes prescribed pills and drinks. It is then that the body  is stricken by a rare disease, has to protect itself from the sun. But that hardened aristocratic blood causes paralysis: latifundiary