aristocracy, of the rearing of cattle, of the possession of lands,  of the massacre of peoples, of redemptive Catholicism. The body  hurts with  it, tries to escape from  itself, wants to run.  Goes from  the schizo  to the paranoiac. A paralyzed body,  stuttering, decompensated. Cuts  itself entirely:  from  top  to bottom, the sharp knife opens  a tear of blood  in the marked body.  Inside  the skin, the tears tattoo  the whole body and make evident its own pain. Takes pills to behave. At times, slips into tight, exotic, exaggerated clothes. Doesn’t know  how to act his homosexuality in a city of machos. So many  tight  clothes,  so many  garments. Goes from  the revolutionary to the reactionary. Standoffish body,  difficult  to come close to. Buckles because of it. Stutters full of twitches. Between  the truck driver and  the  housewife fucks  the  roças dog.  The  dog  cries.  But to whom? Melancholy everywhere.  The  heat   is  intense and   in  the  air  ashes   of  fire squander the dry  woods of the winter without rain. And  like an old camarada [4]  of  the  Goianian  steppes,  searches for  shelter under  the  shadow of  a contorted tree: with  water wets  the dried up lips at the same  time that  he eats the cassava  flour  sweetened by sugar  cane  syrup. Knows  that  from  this  fuck nothing will come out, no fucked  up being will be born  and  continue his race. Thinking is rare.  During break,  remembers an experience which  isn’t his own and smells the damp leather of the troops that in a distant time passed through there. That smell of sweat on the mule’s coat mixed with his own, with the smell of the penis  he had  just stuck  into the dog. All these  sensations, together with the intense heat, make  him melt. In agony,  looks up at the sky without clouds and thinks nothing. Croons like a singer and looks for an inexistent calm, a firm land  of any kind,  a ground, a home.  The solitude is almost  absolute. Around, mounds, lizards and  sun.  The burning of the surrounding woods insists  and invites  him  again,  in the burnt smoke  mixed  with  sweat,  to remember a time which isn’t his but is his. Images take hold of his sight as if the body could make them  come  out  of its pores,  announcing them  as marks  which  belong  to the depths: roasted buttocks from  the long  journey on the animal’s  loin, the arid days inside  the woods, the rummaging of lands.  Stinking men hungry for gold. Bedevilled  Indians,  dispossessed  slaves.   The  mute   sound  of  suffering in erecting villages  on the banks  of the river.  Vila Boa latifundia. The chapel,  the priest,  mass. And once again the sweat,  the stinking smell of pain: black slaves, labour of the body,  manual, hard, strict. Of the Goyáses  remains the name  and something deep in the skin of that body. Here, the little dog is a woman, a slave,