an Indian. The dog cries, but to whom? The fire stops  and  the red dust  rises, it irritates the eyes and  makes  the body  suffer.  Runs  towards the stream. Finds limpid water, fresh,  smooth. The  minnows of  the  little  river  whisper the popular saying:  eat  live  minnows and  learn  how  to swim.  Doesn’t  hesitate, opens  the mouth and  throws live minnows inside  the throat which  goes to the stomach. Jumps into the water and swims like a wild animal. It is already night. After  some  time,  comes  the  pig  which  longs  to  gain  weight for  any  work whatsoever. Buys the pig, takes it to the roça. The pig becomes  a pet. Takes care of the animal as if it were a Madam’s Lulu, strokes  it, caresses  it, gives it food, takes it for walks. Has love for the pig, fattens  it and soon will make of it a good meal.  A banquette where the pig is the guest  of honour which  knows how  to come and comes a fucking  lot. Writes on its behalf, thinks on its behalf. Screams on its behalf:  the pig isn’t a metaphor! In a religious night,  resolves to follow the procession on foot, from Goiania  to Trindade. Finds  an enormous staff on the road  as if it were  a bone  of a dead animal in the pasture, and  gazes  at all those  people which  carry  the Cross to redeem their  sins. But the eyes laugh at all that  frenzied religiosity. Arrives at Trindade, drinks a few and  goes back. Exhausted, tired. In Goiás Velho throws himself against the church walls, again and  again,  seeming to free the sounds of the dead in that  land.  And  the body shrieks as it bangs  into the wall. Brutal brunts with which  the body exhales the stinking smell  of its  ancestors pain:  Goyases, Acroá, Kayapó, Karajá, Xambioá, Yavaé, Avá-Canoeiro, Kalungas. The scandalous voice of dead Maria Grampinho that buried all the filth from the streets in her hairs. Obsessed with the hair clips that  she finds  in the fissures of pavements, is burrowed, mistreated, dumped in the humid basement of Cora Coralina. [5] Mad black woman spends her life looking  for ramonas [6] to stick in her hair.  Dirty  hair  full of clips. From  Cora Coralina, the dark,  humid basement and her culinary witchcraft. When happy, the body drinks some more and, stuttering, can no longer  speak.  Speech comes to expel sound. The head trembles and the smirk takes over the face. Only Jesus! He sings.  Only  Jesus! In the streets,  shouts out  that  his body  is a hotel  of the lowest  category. Screams  in sleepless nights,  in the desire  that  someone may hear  him  and  take  him  far, very  far, from  there.  Drinks  because of it. Dances because of it. Spins  because of it. A tiredness is needed. Decides  to pierce  his own  feet in a Serão Performático. [7] And  that  thick  blood  spread on the  floor