First a note on my use of the term ‘transmateriality’. By this, I do not mean innovative ‘materials’ from plastic through to digital fabrications that bring about transformations in culture or society, as is suggested by, for example Blaine Brownall (2006 – 2010). The problem with this elaboration of the ‘trans’ is that materiality itself remains unaffected by its ‘trans’ing; its movement across and between itself and the socio-technical, ethico-aesthetic components with which it conjoins and separates to form and deform. In Brownall’s account, ‘material’ seems to possess properties to innovate. Yet we are more likely to find that the material properties of the image such as ‘light’ considered as wave and/or particle are in fact already transformed by very material movements.   Such movements are not slides across but rather transductions between different energetic forms. It is precisely by transducing that ‘an image’ such as an Magnetic Resonance Scan is produced. Hence what I am referring to as transmateriality operates prior to any individuation of ‘a’ material. The transmaterial image is an image whose optical qualities are not so much properties but rather artefacts of the transduction of nonvisual materialities and relations. As we shall see, ‘relations’ here are to be taken seriously in the functioning of materialities, in their materialization. For it is the various relations that dynamically hold between and across (‘betweenness’ and ‘acrossness’ are relations) light, sound and algorithmic transform, for instance, that crystalize to become the transmaterial scientific image. Transmateriality, then, is a metastable process that precedes any given material individuation. It exists virtually, in the Simondonian sense, signalling the potentialities that certain materialities might become, might actualize as, as a result of a transformation of those potentialities in the direction of a structuration (Simondon, 2009: 24–5). But it is also processual, actual – the movement toward materialisation, individuation, singularity. The relations engaging and engaged by transmaterial processes, then, are both the metastable, virtual ones of pure difference and the actualizing ones of a  ‘thingness’ as it assembles. We could develop a conception of transmateriality as a general condition of imaging itself but that is beyond the scope of this article. Instead I intend to be more concrete with respect to the transmaterial conditioning of authoritative scientific images.