Let’s begin by probing a little into one of those familiar scientific images of interiority that claim to index the biological basis of human behaviour: the fMRI of the human brain. What does an fMRI actually visualize?  The areas of ‘color’ converted from the original grayscale image are a ‘capture’ of cerebral hemodynamic response – we are looking at the surplus of oxyhaemoglobin (oxygenated blood) remaining in the veins as a ratio of the increase to decrease of cerebral blood flows. Before asking ‘what’, we should ask ‘how’ does an fMRI visualize? We should be clear on one thing – an fMRI is not a visually generated image. In fact, in order to become image, what is required is the conversion of non-visual data into image space. Like MRIs, fMRIs measure the combination of magnetic signals emitted from hydrogen nuclei in water from the area of the body being imaged (magnetic resonance). Magnetic field gradients are captured in the scanning process, and their frequencies and rate of change are related to the position where the signal is picked up by the scanner. The magnetic signals captured – in fMRIs these are emitted over time as the cerebral blood flow changes in response to stimuli – are composed of a series of sine waves, with individual frequencies and amplitudes. These frequencies and amplitudes are computed using a process called the Fourier transform, which converts signal from the time domain into the frequency domain. The frequencies are then separated out and their amplitudes are plotted as an image. A number of manipulations in the Fourier transform space that allow for smoothing of the final image data, elimination of noise via, for example, high pass filters and so forth, take place before the ‘image’ of an fMRI is generated. What is being scanned and then what is done computationally to the signal captured are in fundamental ways non-visual and the image/s we eventually see map the rate of change as a function of time. What we are looking at, then, is first and foremost a temporally imputed imagescape. As Joseph Dumit has suggested, functional brain imaging at its constitutive level should not be confused with morphological images of the brain, even though such images appear to generate a sense of the brain’s topography (1999:189).
 
The areas of ‘colour’ we often see are converted from gray scale in the original imaging, map a ‘capture’ of cerebral hemodynamic response. We see the surplus of oxyhemoglobin (oxygenated blood) remaining in the veins, measured as a ratio of the increase to decrease of cerebral blood flows. Active neurons require both glucose and oxygen in order to fire and an fMRI traces the flow of blood transporting glucose and oxygen through the vascular system necessary for firing. But are we seeing the trace of the activity of neurons themselves, for example, or are we seeing the trace of activity caused by neurotransmitters, which likewise require cerebral blood flow? An fMRI cannot distinguish these substantially – it is a mapping of oxygenated blood flow; that is, of process not substance. So, we are looking at a mathematically inflected (the ratio of increase to decrease), re-coloured, afterimage selected out of dynamic processuality. Interestingly, the more the fMRI becomes visual artefact (and especially when it is framed as ‘an’ image or even two comparable images), the less visually indexical it can be said to be, given that its initial data comprises signal generated by electromagnetic waves. As ‘an’ imaging of the brain, then, we need to understand the final startling brain ‘images’ of so-called located emotions or as evidence of rewiring less as things being imaged and more as temporally inflected (data)sets made up of cross-processed transmaterialised signal. What is important in this cross-processing is that relations between data variables such as frequency, amplitude and position are maintained.