Although we might applaud this kind of research as it seems to signal an exciting shift toward the invisible, we have only to look at the major applications (and of course funding institutions) at the core of such innovation: the US military and NATO. The military fantasy surrounding these new materials lies with the dream to build entire ships, planes and spy satellite systems enveloped by invisibility. In the meantime, both institutions are already developing applications for remote sensing devices, antennae, cloaks for counter-detection and electromagnetic shielding applications among a growing host of surveillance and missile related projects (RTO Task Group, 2011–13). This is hardly surprising but it does provide a clear signal that the diagram of power relations to which an invisible optics continues to belong is still one of securitization and control. As it turns out, then, invisibility is as much bound up with the socio-political forces of a regime of force relations that organise to maximise opportunities for societies of control. If, as Kevin Heggarty and Richard Ericson’s observed in 2000 that a new surveillant assemblage had emerged functioning around the ‘disappearance of disappearance’ (2000: 619), then we are now experiencing its flipside: a reappearance of disappearance. The scientific shift to invisibility within optics participates in a diagram of force relations in which perception is also captured and redistributed, oscillating now between the visible and the hidden. This diagram is co-extensive with an entire social-technical field of techniques for pervasive profiling and sensing. But Rokeby’s aesthetic uptake of the nonvisible finds a different inflection point in this diagram and moves it somewhere else. While the visual continues to play a role in cross-media art works such as Rokeby’s Dark Matter for example, a different sensing of the visual is also made available that takes into account nonhuman vision systems and a redistribution of the usual hierarchisation of human senses.