What I am suggesting is that higher-level homogeneity or equilibrium is not the necessary outcome, especially not a required or desired aesthetic outcome, of component inhomogeneous interactions or, to adopt a more sympathetic socio-political term, heterogeneous relationality. In terms of potential aesthetic strategies for dealing with the growing importance of interference as a scientific diagnostic and imaging technique, we might steer a more interesting course than to fall into one or other side of the pattern versus disruption debate. In Interference, a web work made in 2008 by Michael Kargl (now inactive), the aesthetic premise starts with a questioning of the homogenising tendencies of interference as pattern within the domain of networking (Kargl: 2008). The image which loads for the start-up page of the work immediately directs us to a scientific representation of waveform interference indicating that we should take interference phenomena seriously as they generatenomena from pharmacological interactions to linguistic transformations. Interference as a generalised experience of concurrence and overlap is the premise, then, for Kargl’s work. The point of creating such a work online is precisely to deal with online networks as participants in just such a concurrent mode of making and consuming the visual and the aesthetic. To place art online is exactly to make it available for interaction everywhere and for everyone concurrently. But should we accept this as the necessary condition for viewing, Kargl’s work asks? What is viewed, the visible of the work, in fact disperses and dissolves itself back into its inhomogeneities. Or is terms more familiar to network think and cultures, Interference is distributed heterogeneously.  Launching the site turns out not to be a concurrent or similar viewing experience at all but a unique and solitary one.  Only one person can gain access to the work at a time; should another participant try to engage, the script driving the page view launches ‘a placeholder page…and the viewer has to wait’.  (Kargl, 2008) Each instance of Interference plays out uniquely as a kind of ‘netfilm’ for that participant alone. In a rather quiet and noninterventionist manner, Kargl tackles the diagram of the network in which ubiquity and homongeneity come to be the imperatives toward which its relations of force, hijacked by media and techniques of convergence, stratify into a diagram of network pattern, a network diagram. Interference instead makes us wait in line (an undecidedly non-networked experience), returning watching and interacting with the web to a myriad of singular, constitutive viewing instances. We are sifted back, systematically, into our inhomogeneities, producing a kind of emergent nonvisible yet singular networked audience. This kind of interference that refuses to hold itself to the increasing predominance of pattern formation – at its core an aesthetic-political diagram co-extensive with a society of control – touches upon a transversal interference:   Transversality…tends to be realized when maximum communication is brought about between different levels and above all in terms of different directions. (Guattari, 2003:80)