Quite dramatically the sun-picture, the camera, the plate diagram cobble together the rudiments of an assemblage, a machine for producing an aesthetic-technics at once artistic and scientific. This art-science proximity – sometimes loosely hanging out, sometimes in tension – nonetheless accompanies the descent of imaging, from photography onward, into what Vilem Flusser has called ‘the universe of technical images’.[2]  It is not the case, then, that the technical image breaks away from an aesthetic register – as Fox Talbot’s supplication to ‘sun-images’ all too poetically attests. Instead, the relations between the scientific and aesthetic have to be constantly renewed with respect to the question of indexicality, as if the imprint of the world – the affective proximity of materialities and their forces – will always threaten to interfere with the image’s claims to either science, on the one hand or art, on the other. 
What Flusser makes clear is that what the technical image ushered in – not with the optics of photography but via the programmaticity of the camera as apparatus – was a new mode of dealing with the relational forces of different materialities con- and disjoining domains such as art and science.  Images came to be semiotized through the process of their (eventually) endless recording – the camera a kind of program that both enabled and sequenced that recording. Eventually the sun-picture would become so recordable that it has come to almost shoot itself, holding up a back camera to itself as its own source of light. The contemporary plethora of imaging of the image-itself results today in a purely nonhuman technicity for the entire visual field, where the data/image relies on code and program for any semiosis whatsoever. We see this nowhere as clearly as the transcoding of data through scientific and medical visualization. Yet as Flusser also suggests, this does not mean that materialities of the image or text disappear. Instead, as the relations between texts, images, code and symbols historically mutate, so too do they materially transform. Encoded through binary semitotizing regimes, the new materiality of text implodes into zero-dimensionality (Flusser, 2011:6) Surprisingly, it is on the zero-degree plane of the electronic encoding of image as data that visuality now pins its hopes. Its indice, and ‘authority’ is no longer the natural world but a universe of pure mathematics.