20  Quoting Jordan  Crandall  in “Precision  + Guided  + Seeing”:  “While tracking  is  about the strategic  detention and codification  of  movement, it  is  also about  positioning.  It studies how something moves in order to predict its exact location in time and space. It fastens  its  object  (and subjects)  onto a classifying  grid  or  database-driven  identity assessment,  reaffirming  precise  categorical  location  within a  landscape  of  mobility. Rather than being fully about mobility on the one hand, or locational specificity on the other, tracking is more accurately about the dynamic between. We might call this inclination-position. (…) This is a landscape in which signifiers have become statistics. It is how computers think, and how we begin to think with them».” (Crandall, 2006).
21  Quoting  Gilles  Deleuze  in “Post-scriptum  sobre  as  sociedades  de  controlo”: “Il  n’y a pas besoin de science-fiction pour concevoir umn mécanisme de contrôle qui donne à chaque instant  la  position d’un  element  en milieu  ouvert,  animal  dans la  reserve, homme dans  une enterprise  (collier  électronique).  Féliz  Guattari  imaginait  une ville  où chacun  pouvait quitter   son  appartement,   sa  rue,   son  quartier,   grace   à sa   carte
électronique  (dividuelle)  qui faisait  lever  telle  ou telle barrière;  mais  aussi  bien la  carte pouvait être  recrachée  tel  jour,  ou entre  telles  heures;  ce qui   compte  n’est pas la barrière,  mais  l’ordinateur  qui  repère  la position de chacun, licite  ou illicite,  et opère une modulation universelle”. (Deleuze,1990: 246).
22     According   to  Robert   W.   Williams   in   “Politics   and  self   in   the  age  of   digital re(pro)ducibility”: “For Deleuze, the data gathered on us through the new technologies did not necessarily  manifest  our  irreducible  uniqueness. Rather,  the very  way  that the data can be gathered about us and then used for and against us marks us as dividuals. For Deleuze,  such  technologies  indicate  that we as discrete  selves  are not in-divisibles entities;  on the contrary,  we can be divided  and subdivided  endlessly.  What  starts  as particular  information  about specific  people –  or  selves  –  can be separated  from  us and recombined in new ways outside our control. Such ‘recombinations’ are based on the  criteria   deemed  salient   by  those   with   access   to  the  information,   be  they government officials or corporate marketers.” (Williams, 2005).