Facing the increasingly precarious nature of labour, there is a tendency among the left to wax nostalgic for post-war good old days when a 40 hour/week, unionized job and retirement pension were  attainable on a mass scale. This wish for a return to the pre-neoliberal days is admirable because it stems from a wish for increased personal and social security. Yet the left should not wish old forms of oppression back into existence. The most stable 40 hour/week job with a full pension is still precarious! Such a form of employment is precarious not because it is constantly at risk of being taken away (which is certainly a real risk given austerity measures sweeping the globe and government disinvestment from public sector jobs and social welfare programs), but it is precarious in its stability. Perhaps the definition of precarity needs to be expanded in order for this to make sense, since at first glance a stable job seems to contradict the very definition of precarity, for it is neither dependent on chance nor likely to collapse.
	Yet this expanded application of precarity does indeed make sense when precarity is considered as the biopolitical – and not solely economic – problem that it is. The most decent of incomes, the most regular of work, the most guaranteed of pensions: they are precarious not for what they are as work, but for what they do to life. They are life, sold (as labour). Lived time parcelled into wage units.
	So then, maybe it is most appropriate to speak of precarious life, rather than precarious work. Nevertheless, from this perspective, a stable job is still better than a precarious one because it carries some guarantees of security for the excess life not sold on the labour market. But we must emphasize that Fordist-style salaried labour is not the way out of precarity; it is a deal bargained with precarity. To de-precari-ize (?) life, a new relationship between life and work must be sought, where “stable work” and a “stable economy” are not sought as the solution to precariousness. 
	The intervals of “capital time” are a starting point for the exploration of non-precarious life. By intervals in capital time we do not mean “leisure time”, but rather the un-coded intervals, the moments where capitalism schizzes out and produces times of non-determinate action. Perhaps resisting precarity is a project of harvesting ambiguity that thwarts the automatisms of neoliberalism; making swiss cheese of capital time.  
	Carving out these temporal black holes of indeterminacy where action stems from imperatives outside of capitalist automatisms can be understood as the construction of a reserve of potential energy. It is potential energy quantified not through the eyes of capital but from the perspective of the totality of social machinisms.  Of course, there is a gross overlap between processes of capitalist codification and the totality of social machinisms, but there is also always a molecular excess non-reducible to the molar apparatuses of capture deployed by capital. This non-reducible, non-coded temporal excess, the schizz on the margins of capture, is pure potential because it exists prior to being made use of (to whatever, to whoever's ends). As pure potential, it contains the potential to multiply its potentiality, to build its energy reserves, thus forcing the system from which it is irreducible (capitalism) to adapt to its own demands. Capitalism and the precarity it harvests mutates in the process, perhaps over the threshold of being the prime actor in the social system it both leeches from and produces.