Given  that  the possibilities of action  are laid out on the monitor, a graphical user interface—even a more  moderate, less busy  one—favors certain  kinds  of users, those  who  are learning to use the computer.  With available options displayed on the  screen,  users  can  find  what  they  are  looking for without having to rely  on memory or symbolic thinking.   The GUI encourages experimentation and  play (within  the   boundaries  of  its  representations),  while   comforting  users   and reducing the  pervasive anxiety  and  intellectual effort  of having to call forth  an expertise.  This is Kay’s  explicit  goal,  reflecting his  philosophical commitments and  his  youthful audience of testers,  but  what  about  users  who  already know how  to use the computer and  now  want  to get their  work  done?   For many  years after  Apple  commercialized the  GUI, expert  users  disparaged the  Macintosh as an unsophisticated toy.   The tired  debate pitting Microsoft  Windows against the Apple  Mac remains a perpetuation of dueling philosophies:  the  computer as a learning environment versus the  computer as a productivity machine. (Thus  it was never  incidental nor merely a matter of marketing that  Apple  dominated in education while  Microsoft  ruled the business world.)  It may well be of benefit  to an expert  user  to be able to call forth any file without having to navigate through layers   of  folders,   without  having to  remove  her  hands from   the  keyboard, without  having  to  engage  in  visual   cognition  at  all.     The   command  line intimidates  non-experts, but  it  provides a  simple   mechanism  to  invoke   any process or any  file with  any  modifying parameters often  using  a single  line  of coded text.    Moreover, the  command line  interface is consistent and  efficient; input and  output share  a common form  (text),  and  just  about  every  character conveys essential information.   By contrast, icons  carry  very  little  information relative to the amount of space  they  occupy  and  the amount of time they  persist