This opening ventriloquism animated by the televisual medium echoes the letters Tarkovsky got  from  people who  wrote in response to this  deeply personal and subjective film to express astonishment that  he should know  “their” story,  to tell him “that’s me!” (Tarkovsky 1986: 8). This is the mirror effect in Tarkovsky’s film, which  opens  with the television screen so often read as a medium of hypnosis and suspended will,  and  then  presents an  enabling “embodiment” as that  which  is shared ambiguously between bodies,   as  a  pure   speech   act  that  displaces the personal. The “that’s me”  Tarkovsky encountered is the  mark  that  for Deleuze, distinguishes the forger from the artist’s generosity as enacted through fabulation. Deleuze, like Tarkovsky had  a similar  encounter in response to his own  work  on the publication of The Fold, evoking a kind of pedagogy of perception. He describes receiving letters  from  paper folders  and  surfers who  write  to  tell  him:  “Votre histoire  du  pli,  c’est   nous.”   For   Deleuze,  this   enabled  a  sort   of  productive dispossession, a relay  of effects that  didn’t rely on communication, but  a kind  of shared condition, like the notes he received from his students: one way messages, table turnings. Deleuze explicitly  frames  these comments in the posthumous time of his “will have died.” He says: “Yes, these are encounters. When I say ‘get out of philosophy through philosophy,’ this happened to me all the time … I encountered the paper folders  … I don’t have to go see them.  No doubt, we’d be disappointed, I’d be disappointed, and  they  certainly would be.”  What  matters instead is the fragility of the correspondence. In Tarkovsky, the authorizing gesture that  allows one to speak  is connection, assemblage via media and  medium. This is a mode  of being moved by and with a sense of possession (“your story, that’s us) as a minor mode  of resistance to information and  communication. This minor  practice of possession is one of infidelity, in the sense  of faithlessness to what  is in the sense of the actual,  for an in-fidelity to change itself.