The how of movement-moving is a question of the interval. Intervals are qualitative holes of movement-moving opened up by inflections. Rela- tional movement generates and is generated by intervals.10 Imagine a busy subway station. There are many coimplicated directionalities, your move- ment always cueing in the complexity of the speeds and slownesses around you, a score that moves more than just you.
Consider this scenario: You feel the subway coming toward the platform before you see it, its sound and its vibrations preceding it. This movement tunes the whole platform, qualitatively altering the posture of those waiting. You may not yet see movement, but it is welling, its incipiency felt across the multitude. If this is rush hour at the Lionel Groulx station in Montreal, hundreds of people are poised. Some are stiller than others, waiting quietly for the subway doors to open, some are shifting impatiently between those standing in line, others are walking down the platform, their rhythms a mix of hurried and languid, some are talking on the phone, some are reading.
As the subway doors open, a subtle anticipatory shift in posture and to- nality can be felt across the platform. Where before there seemed to be a relatively simple directionality, most of it tuned toward the subway doors, now a bidirectional tendency begins to form. These two movements can be quite frantic in their co-composition, especially when in addition people are running from the just-arrived train on the other side of the platform, hoping to make it onto the one you’ve been patiently waiting for. Yet very few collisions occur. And this is with many distractions—people listening to music with their earphones, friends talking, people running to get in before the doors slam. How do we all move together so seamlessly?
The choreography of collective movement is made possible by the inter- relation between the intervals the movement creates and the collective ca- pacity to cue and align to them, in the moving. Cueing is an important
activity in the relational field. It is not directly tied to volition or intention- ality. It happens in the moving. Although it may feel like it is individuals cueing to one another, what is actually happening is that movement is cue- ing to a relational ecology in the making.11
The cueing to conditions of change cannot happen in the real-time where these shifts reach conscious perception. That would be too slow. The cues are moving you before you consciously realize the need to make a minor shift, to tend in a certain direction, to alter the quality of your move- ment. The nonconscious movement of thought moves you, a thinking in the field that cannot be separated from the moving, alerting you to the fact that you have moved only in the event of attention becoming conscious. It is only now, and barely so, since conscious and nonconscious percep- tion are continuously realigning, that you realize you have made way for a change in the relational field. This choreographic impulse is distributed, the movement attuning to cues that are themselves shifting in the mobile ecology that is the subway platform.
I suspect that cueing to movement in its co-composition is more in- tuitive across the spectrum of neurodiversity than cueing to movement- position. How counterintuitive, then, to approach autistic movement— or any movement instruction, for that matter—from the perspective that there is a definable frame as regards where movement begins and ends? Why, knowing about autistic movement disturbance, would we ask autis- tics to measure their capacity to move on the accomplishment of a pre- choreographed task instead of investing in modes of cueing and aligning that celebrate incipient movement? Why, when for all of us a relational movement-moving is more intuitive than a staged movement-task, do we still tend to privilege the neurotypical account that movement begins with stopping (think of the typical dance class that begins every movement from stillness, as opposed to those fantastic choreographers who “find” the movement in the middle of its self-expression), that movement is orga- nized through frames imposed from the outside (think of the typical way of teaching a danced movement sequence from the perspective of an 8-count that begins with 1 and ends with 8 as opposed to the more fluid rhythms of a volleyball game, where it is the movement of the ball that choreographs movements already moving)? Clearly both tendencies are well and alive— so why do we still persist in privileging so-called “volitional” movement?
About the difficulty of initiating movement, Kedar writes: “I have been thinking a lot about my nonresponsiveness. It’s almost like a form of paral- ysis [yet] I’m not paralyzed to wave ribbons, or to pace, or things like that.
Then I’m the opposite of paralyzed. I can’t get my body to stop moving around, though I want it to” (2012: 101). Autistic Naoki Higashida con- curs: “When I’m jumping, I can feel my body parts really well . . .—my bounding legs and my clapping hands—and that makes me feel so, so good. . . . So by jumping up and down, it’s as if I’m shaking loose the ropes that are tying up my body” (2013: location [hereafter “loc.”] 435). Cueing to movement-moving is clearly not the challenge: it’s starting from stilled movement that is so difficult.
Most of our education systems are based on starting from stillness. We learn in chairs. We associate concentration with being quiet. We discourage the movement of thought we call daydreaming, particularly in the context of “learning.” We consider the immanent movements of doodling to be a distraction.12 We are told not to fidget. Reason is aligned with keeping the body still. What if instead we invested in movement-moving, asking chil- dren not to stop moving but to become increasingly aware of the share of creativity in the incipient directions of the movements that move them? What if we taught them that the ideal posture for learning or listening or “paying attention” was not standing still (or sitting still), but attuning to cues active in the field of relation?13 What if we directly allied the move- ment of thought to movement-moving? If we took the common event of cueing to movement-moving outlined above as the ground of experience, what else would we become capable of perceiving? What else could learn- ing (and listening and attending) become?
What else we would perceive, were we to invest in relational movement instead of stopping movement in the midst, are movement-intervals. Inter- vals invite and steer movement. They also open the movement to its own time, event-time. Think of event-time as the time, in the event, of cueing and aligning to the futurity of experience in the making.
Honing the interval is a technique that is capable of altering the flow of movement-moving. I call this choreographic thinking. Choreography at its best is not about aligning bodies to precomposed shapes. It is about gen- erating modes of moving that make felt the complex ecology of incipient movement, to make felt what I have elsewhere called movement’s preaccel- eration and its elasticity of the almost.14 It is about composing techniques for experiencing the more-than of form. To choreograph the interval is to attend, in the event, to how movement’s force-form is elastic, to sense the shift activated by the inflection and to fashion ways of cueing and aligning that keep the field of activity alive to the virtual effects of total movement.
FROM AGENCY TO AGENCEMENT