Think the interval not only as the force of form in the context of a simple movement. Think it also in its potential as an opening onto agencement, as opposed to agency.
Agency begins in a category. It is used to place the action of volition in a subject or a group. That said, I recognize that agency is often used in aca- demic discourse to give voice to an underrepresented group. We talk about the agency of the disabled, the agency of the autistic, the agency of women of color. We speak of the need for the disenfranchised to have agency.
The last thing I want to do is to deny the complexity of power and the ways in which it sidelines populations. Indeed, what is important here is precisely the question of how an emphasis on the in-act of event-time opens the way for a rethinking of power and the politics that accompanies it. Focusing on agencement instead of agency, I want to argue, allows us not only to value modes of experience backgrounded in the account of agency, it also shakes the powerful foundations of neurotypicality, a mode of exis- tence that profoundly devalues accounts of experience that cannot be re- duced to the volition-intentionality-agency triad.
My proposal is that an approach that begins in the field of relation is precisely political because it does not begin with the agency of a precon- ceived group or solitary identity. Rather than beginning with subject-based identity, this approach begins in the ecology of practices where there is still room for new modes of existence to be invented. New modes of existence call forth an articulation of the political that is not reducible to preexisting constituencies, and thus is open to creating and celebrating modes of life- living as yet uncharted.15
Where agency returns to the identity of a precomposed category, agence- ment speaks to the interstitial arena of experience of the interval, an interval not of the category but in the pre of categorization where the field is still in formation. In Deleuze and Guattari’s A Thousand Plateaus, Brian Massumi translates the untranslatable agencement with “assemblage.”16 Unfortunately, assemblage has too often been read as an object or existent configuration, rather than in its potentializing directionality. This is why I return to the French term here. Agencement, which carries within itself a sense of move- ment and connectibility, of processual agency, is used first in A Thousand Plateaus with relation to the book. A book, Deleuze and Guattari argue, is an agencement. They write:
There is no difference between what a book talks about and how it is made. Therefore a book also has no object. As an assemblage [agence- ment], a book has only itself, in connection with other assemblages [agencements] and in relation to other bodies without organs. We will never ask what a book means, as signified or signifier; we will not look for anything to understand in it. We will ask what it functions with, in connection with what other things it does or does not transmit inten- sities, in which other multiplicities its own are inserted and metamor- phosed, and with what bodies without organs it makes its own converge. (1987: 4)
This is another way of saying that a book can activate a movement of thought. A book is an agencement in its capacity to create linkages not yet assembled, to produce ways of becoming, to invent new modes of exis- tence.
It seems to me that there is more agency in agencement than there is in its usual alignment to an identity category. If we take the field of move- ment in its capacity for differentiation as the motor for change, there are a lot more openings for difference. The difficulty is in harnessing this po- tential without backgrounding its co-compositional nature. This is where technique comes in.
Techniques are associated with both habit and skill. For those of us who have practices honed over time, such as playing an instrument, dancing, painting, we have a strong sense of what technique might be, usually asso- ciating it to repetitive gestures and, in the case of skill, with virtuosity. At the other end of the spectrum, where technique is more tied to habit, tech- nique might be associated with ways of keeping house, ways of bringing up our children, ways of being in a relationship, ways of teaching. We also have techniques for walking in the snow, for interacting with strangers, for dealing with fear.
The difference between a technique and a habit is a question of degree. Like habit and procedure, in the last chapter, or habit and rituality in the one before, they exist on a continuum as limit concepts. Whereas habit’s technique is backgrounded and often lingers on the edge of the noncon- scious, technique’s habit is often consciously honed. Do you call the way your feet take you to the coffee machine in the morning a technique or a habit? I would say that with the early-morning coffee, or the walk to the toi- let, these are more habitual because their techniques are so backgrounded. But if you’re dealing with an onset of Parkinson’s, the old habit may require
new techniques. Now that you are less sure on your feet and your energy wavers from day to day, or even hour to hour, you will likely find your- self seeking out new techniques to hone the habit. Habit’s techniques will thus foreground themselves, and you might begin to think of your move- ments less in terms of habit and more in terms of technique. New tech- niques might include holding on to the piece of furniture on the way to the bathroom with your stronger left arm, or making sure there are no ob- stacles in the way that you might inadvertently trip over, or, in the case of making coffee, setting up the coffee machine where you can sit to prepare your morning coffee, or even changing your espresso-machine coffee habit to the simpler technique of making instant coffee. Techniques open habit to its potential undoing as much as they make apparent habit’s stubborn place in our life.
With regard to the potential of agencement in the intervals of existence- in-the-making, technique makes all the difference. This is why techniques are so central to the work done at the SenseLab, the laboratory for thought in motion where much of my thinking and making around choreographic thinking takes place. Here we ask ourselves what kinds of techniques would best create the conditions for the opening of a field of experience to a dif- ferent way of functioning. If we are working toward creating an event, for instance, we will work to make sure that the event’s thresholds (the ways people initially enter the event) will be capable of creating emergent at- tunements. Previous to the event, in weekly SenseLab gatherings, we will invent movement exercises, for instance, that explore how a relational milieu opens itself to modes of encounter. We will then explore how the openings created might allow for a qualitatively different entry as regards ordinary habits of self-presentation.17 We also work to create techniques that open the event to its more-than human ecology. Usually we will spend a full year on these techniques with the hope that one or two will actually make a difference in the event.
But technique on its own is not enough. The technique will only open the field, altering the conditions of its emergence. What is also needed is a minor gesture that is capable of tuning technique to what I call its tech- nicity. Think of ballet, for instance. Through repetitive techniques—in- cluding practicing for hours at the barre, honing flexibility in the joints through daily stretching, practicing jumps over and over again to create better balance, repeating particular forms daily—a body will begin to be- come a ballet-body. Hips will open in a way that will allow for a diversity of movement quite unusual for most standing bodies, toes and feet will be-
come accustomed to the pain of pointe shoes if they are used, the extension of limbs in the predictable orientations of a ballet-aesthetic will become second nature. But these shifts in the dancing body won’t by themselves be enough to make a dancer really dance. What will make the dancer dance is technicity, the outdoing of technique, the capacity to take technique to its limit, and then to go elsewhere.
Technique and technicity coexist. Where technique is defined by the repetitive practices that tune a process, technicity is a set of enabling con- ditions that exact from technique the potential for the process to exceed its form. Where technique paves the way for a degree of complexity within a given field of experience, technicity opens the event to its agencement. Activated by the minor gesture that bridges technique and its more-than, technicity moves the process toward a practice still to be defined. This is the potential we sometimes see in that one dancer in the corps de ballet who stands out even though the form of her movements doesn’t neces- sarily depart from those of the dancers around her. What makes this one dancer stand out is the quality not of the form of her movements them- selves but of the what else within her movement-moving, the tenor, the intensity, the color of what the form leaves behind. Think technicity as the agencement that stretches out from technique, creating brief interludes for the more-than of technique, gathering from the implicit the force of form. Think technicity as the art of the event.