“Choreography starts from any point,” writes William Forsythe (in Casper- son 2000: 33). Choreography co-composes with the event’s point of inflec- tion. It cleaves an occasion, activating its relational potential. It makes time, beginning its process anew always from the midst of the event. Choreog- raphy is thus a proposition to the event. It asks the event how its ecology might best generate and organize the force of movement-moving.
Choreographic agencement is a complex of experience that in itself can- not be mapped. What emerges choreographically is less an organization of bodies than a cartography of incipient tendencies, of force of form. In this sense, choreography is less about a body than about an ecology. This ecology is more-than-human, composed as much of the force of atmo- sphere, of duration, of rhythm, than it is of something we might call the body-envelope. This more-than is not activated by decisions in the stan-
dard sense of being willed by the individual, but by the immanent creation, in the event, of points of inflection that affect the very tenor of movement- moving. How we cue and align to these inflections, how we move with intervals in the making, is spurred by an activating cut immanent to the process that cleaves the event, creating a vectoring into contrast. Decision in the moving—like thought in the moving—is the event of tendencies colliding such that they coalesce in the time-slip of the new, spurred into invention by the ecology of the dance itself.
I want to think this immanent editing of decision in a choreographic practice as the activator of an agencement that occurs in event-time. Event- time is not linear, metric time. It is a making-felt of the interval, a making- apparent of how time tunes with the inflection of movement-moving. Event-time makes felt the rhythmic differential in the passage from minor gestures to technicity. Event-time cannot be abstracted from the event’s coming into itself. It is not a time framed, but a time without measure. Event-time, the art of time, is time in relation, time actively co-composing in an emergent ecology.
Choreographic thinking is a proposition to movement-moving that asks how the plane of experience composes, how it remembers, how it becomes, and how it takes form, all in the register of the more-than-human. It is an everyday activity that tunes habits and invents techniques. At its best, it is an operative technicity that opens experience to emergent collectivity. For its focus is never on the body per se. What moves it choreographically is not first and foremost a body. It is rhythm, a cut in duration, a field of res- onance, an interval.
To move the interval, the more-than, rather than “the body,” or “the subject,” is to create an opening for a politics that doesn’t begin with or settle into form, a politics that invents with the inframodality of a making- thinking that refuses to know in advance what it can become. Traditionally, political philosophy does not make space for the interval within the vocab- ulary of the political subject (or its adjacent concept, the body-politic), yet the interval has nonetheless leaked into the complex iterations of experi- ence we call the political.18 What a focus on movement can do is bring to the fore the potential of a different perspective, one that leads away from a humanist bias that builds on intention and volition toward the complex intervals of an ecological world in motion.19
This has effects for political thought. The agencements of event-time open the way for what Guattari calls an ecosophy, a politics both ethico-
political and aesthetic. Such a politics is as far as one can get from a politics of individual or group identity. It begins instead directly with the agence- ment active in movement-moving, gathering not around the individual but around what Guattari calls a group-subject, the collective momentum of a field of relation cueing and aligning to modes of thought in the making. This is not to entirely background the individual. Of course the individual reemerges at key moments, but always as transindividual: the force of form activated in the ecology of practices is tuned here such that what makes a difference does so at the level of the collective rather than through what are perceived as individual acts. Following Simondon, think the individual in this context less as an initiator of experience than as one of the ways in which the field inflection comes to determinate expression.
In his work at La Borde, a psychiatric clinic founded by Jean Oury, Guat- tari’s focus was on the schizoanalytic encounter with group-subjectivity. For Guattari, creating and defining new forms of subjectivity was urgent, for it was only in the practice of rethinking the subject in the analytical con- text that the dominant paradigm of the psychoanalytic, where the subject is very much predefined, could be sidestepped, creating a platform for neuro- diversity. La Borde was an ideal site for this kind of research. Peter Pál Pel- bart explains: “La Borde was a polyphonic laboratory. And it’s true: some- one who suffers from psychosis is completely deterritorialized from the subject, immediately. In other words, the subjectivities and the subjectiva- tions have absolutely nothing to do with the identity of the subject before us. All of this allows all sorts of entities from elsewhere to proliferate.”20
It is worth repeating that a group-subject as Guattari defines it is not simply a group of individuals. The group-subject is defined by the group as it is formed in the encounter, not organized around the self-presentation of its members, but directed by the ways the group attunes to the necessity of its coming-into-formation. The group is never the sum of its parts, but rather an emergent collectivity which, for Guattari, always co-composes across the overlapping fields of the environment, the social, and the psy- chic. At La Borde, the focus on the group-subject serves to reorient the very question of mental illness, placing the burden not directly on the in- dividual, but asking, as the movement for neurodiversity does, that dif- ference be seen as a conduit for the crafting of transindividual modes of existence, modes of existence capable of integrating complex notions of interdependence and care. The goal is not to deny the needs of each person, but to recognize that it is impossible to abstract conditions of well-being from the relational field.
CHOREOGRAPHING THE POLITICAL