A politics in movement is a politics in the making allied to an activist phi- losophy. As Brian Massumi defines it, activist philosophy is concerned with “coincident differences in manner of activity between which things happen [where] the coming-together of the differences as such—with no equaliza- tion or erasure of their differential—constitutes a formative force” (2011: 5). The activist philosophy I am proposing here is neurodiverse. This means that it cannot be contained within the limits of neurotypical experience. Neurotypicality, as I argued in the introduction, is as much a construct as any other identity politics, and yet it is perhaps even more insidious, for, in most cases, it remains almost completely backgrounded in experience. We learn so early that body and world are separate, that intentionality trumps mutual determination, that intelligence is defined by rationality, that thought is conscious and ideally linguistically articulated, that sitting still is necessary for learning, that daydreaming is a waste of time, that the edg- ings into perception that distract us (or, more likely, attract us) are halluci- nations, that the act belongs to a subject, that we often don’t realize to what degree neurotypicality works as the very definition of human existence.21 Nonspeaking autistic Amelia Baggs writes:
If we were real people, killing us would be bad, and killing ourselves would be unfortunate rather than something people build special laws to enable.
If we were real people, the world would be designed in a way that al- lowed us to move through it without extra obstacles thrown in our way. If we were real people, people would see us as individuals, rather than heroes, tragedies, inspirations, or representatives of our entire impair-
ment group.
If we were real people, then giving us proper medical care would never be seen as pointless.
If we were real people, the whole myriad range of disability stereo- types would look flimsy and silly because people would see us as we are.
Of course we’re already real people. But the problem is that so few people have noticed.22
Choreographing the political means devising techniques, in the mov- ing, for an activist philosophy that is ecological and neurodiverse at its very core. An activist philosophy born of a commitment to neurodiversity means refusing to situate movement in a preconstituted subject; question-
ing the place of volition in experience; resisting normopathy as a point of departure; embracing autistic perception.
As I will outline in the next chapter, to continue down the road of ac- tivist philosophy, it is necessary to go to the heart of why volition does not define experience, and to explore further how agency, as tied to intention and will, has served not to bestow power but to parse the world into sub- jects and objects, thereby startlingly disempowering difference. An activ- ist philosophy involves diverging from the intentionality-volition-agency triad to become attuned instead to the art of participation that is life-living. An activist philosophy begins from the perspective of the more-than, where the as-yet-uncharted movements of agencement are at their most operational. Here, in the midst, an important task of an activist philosophy is to attune to the ways in which ecologies settle into (trans)individuals. These individuals, these speciations, mark how an event has resolved into an act. Speciations are not created to last. But their passage makes a dif- ference. An activist philosophy is interested in how their appearance into existence alters the quality of the event’s coming-to-be. For, how an event comes to be, how it occasions, is its value. This is not about value-added in any capitalist sense. For what speciations bring to experience is a valuation of process in the event, not an external evaluation of form. Inasmuch as an activist philosophy directly engages with neurodiverse forms of life in their
emergence, with speciations in-act, it is a philosophy of value.23 Speciations are rhythmic activations of an ecological body that never
precede the event of their coming-into-relation. They give rhythm, give tone, to the how of the event’s in-forming, cutting across the idea of spe- cies fully formed. Speciations are never one thing—think of them instead as complex tendings, as conglomerates of activity. They are not categories, and their taking-form cannot be separated out from the event of their coming-to-be. In their taking-place, in their chunking as this or that, spe- ciations nonetheless never quite resolve into an identity. This is because the collectivity at the heart of the ecology that defines them remains active, participatory, even in the occasion that settles the act.
Choreographing the political begins here, in the midst of shapeshift- ing speciations. Allied to activist philosophy, allied to the kind of study that happens in the undercommons, a choreographing of the political sees minor gestures everywhere at work, and it seizes them. Choreographing the political is a call not only for the collective crafting of minor gestures, but for the attunement, in perception, to how minor gestures do their work.