In autistic Lucy Blackman’s writing, carrying attaches itself to nouns. “When I refer to something within myself,” she writes,
I often use the word “carrying” as an adjective just before the word for the emotion or whatever. So when I draft what I want to say, the word “carrying” frequently appears but I usually edit it out so it doesn’t confuse or distract other people. . . . What do I mean by “carrying my world”? I think that most people see themselves as moving between the things and the space on each side of them, so that the area in front comes up and parts before their faces, because that is how the television camera shows “reality.” Somehow I use space differently. My space envel- opes me as if I were in a cocoon, and the items and other aspects of my environment enter and leave that cocoon. (2013: 6)
Carrying moves the noun. With this motor attached to it, the noun be- comes a field of sensation, making felt the ineffable more-than of percep- tion, the welling nonconscious activity of experience in the making. As an autistic writing herself into neurotypical experience, Blackman feels the carrying needs to be edited out—not experientially, of course, but linguis- tically. The more-than of experience in the making must be left unspoken. And yet this more-than cannot so easily be excised. It remains active, de- spite her desire to background it. We hear it in her descriptions of neuro-
diversity—it lurks in her prose, it enlivens her metaphors. It is there when she talks about her experience of a body, articulating the difficulty she has in defining where the body ends and the world begins. It is there when she speaks of the challenge of moving in a world that refuses to settle itself into a stable locus where objects and subjects are clearly differentiated. It is there when she writes of memory, articulating the difference between a kind of experiential memory felt in the moving and a linguistic mem- ory activated for the telling. Everywhere, Blackman’s experience is one of carrying, one that privileges the felt experience of emergent relation. For her, a body is a carrying-across, a relational field that incorporates the en- vironment in its infinite metamorphosis. It is an orbit that includes even as it creates, an orbit that cannot be abstracted from the vibrations, flashes, triggers that cross over into the world in-forming, an orbit that is less a body as such than the activity of crossing, the activity of aligning. An or- bit is not a site, Blackman emphasizes again and again, but a region, an opening onto experience, a co-composition with a world in the making. A worlding.
Carrying is always tied to movement. As I outlined in the last chap- ter, to move as an autistic is to live in paradox. On the one hand, there is nothing but movement, most of it nonvoluntary, which, for neurotypically inflected existence, translates as strange, unpredictable, disturbing—the autistic body simply moves too much. On the other hand, it is this same overabundance of movement-moving that keeps the autistic singularly open to perception in its most complex iterations, making directly felt the world’s edgings into itself. “Sometimes I pity you for not being able to see the beauty of the world in the same way we do. Really, our vision of the world can be incredible, just incredible,” writes Naoki Higashida. “When you see an object, it seems that you see it as an entire thing first, and only afterward do its details follow on. But for people with autism, the details jump straight out at us first of all, and then only gradually, detail by detail, does the whole image sort of float up into focus” (2013: loc. 513).
This capacity to directly perceive experience in-forming, what I am call- ing autistic perception, involves a continuous carrying, a moving-with of experience in the making. What if we took this carrying that Blackman feels she has to background for neurotypical consumption and made it the mo- tor of experience? What if we said that carrying is precisely what motivates an experience to become what it can do? What would this approach alter in terms of accounts of agency? How would such an approach give credence to this most lively of modes of perception that is autistic perception?
Following the work of the last chapter, which explored the role of in- flection, relation, and the interval in movement in order to foreground the nonconscious share of movement-moving, linking it to an activist philos- ophy that is neurodiverse at its core, I want to expand the account of vo- lition here to ask how carrying takes us further outside of the model of the neurotypical. I want to suggest that there is, in Blackman’s account of orbital subjectivity, and in many other accounts of autistic perception, a kind of carrying of mobility that resituates experience beyond the reigning body/world dichotomy.1