What Blackman calls “carrying the feeling” is all about the movement of a subjectivity very much in flux. Feeling here, as in Whitehead, is not to be understood as an external response to an existing event. Feeling is what defines the quality of the event in the event. There is no external subjectivity here: the subject, as in Whitehead, is not the activator of the act but what emerges in the act. Whitehead calls this emergent individual “the subjec- tive form” of the event. How the event coalesces into itself is its subjective form. This subjective form, the subject of the event, the event’s speciation, does not necessarily resemble a human subject. The subjective form is how the assemblage of the event’s composition comes into itself. “There are many species of subjective forms, such as emotions, valuations, purposes, adversions, aversions, consciousness, etc.” (Whitehead 1978: 24). These subjective forms are oriented by what Whitehead calls the event’s “subjec- tive aim.” The subjective aim, the event’s minor gesture, orients the event toward its actualization.2 Whitehead calls the process toward actualization concrescence, emphasizing the sense of a growing in the event (1978: 25).
Each occasion of experience, once it has achieved its subjective form, is absolutely what it is. It is how this event came into itself just this way. But of course each event is influenced by how other occasions of experience have come to concrescence, and it carries those concrescences with it in germ.3 To create a continuity of experience, there has to be a way that occasions of experience continue to affect one another. One way this happens in White- head is through nonsensuous perception, a concept that describes the fold- ing of past tonalities into present events. Nonsensuous perception does not mean that the past fully formed fits into present occasions. It means that the tendencies of pastness contribute to how the current event unfolds. Subjective aim is key here, as a lure for feeling (1978: 85). Feeling here is
the force, in the event, that lures experience into a tendency-to-form. This tendency-to-form is not back-traceable to something that could be easily encapsulated as “the past” fully formed: pastness is a current that runs through it. Whitehead writes: “The breath of feeling which creates a new individual fact has an origination not wholly traceable to the mere data. It conforms to the data, in that it feels the data. But the how of feeling, though it is germane to the data, is not fully determined by the data. The relevant feeling is not settled, as to its inclusions or exclusions of ‘subjective form,’ by the data about which the feeling is concerned” (1978: 85). An occasion of experience is the fullness of what a feeling has felt as actualized through a singular subjective form. This subjective form carries both the feeling in its operative fullness as virtual force and the in-act of what that feeling has felt in this singular instance. The feeling, like Blackman’s carrying-feeling, is that which moves the event toward what Whitehead calls its satisfaction. It is the event’s agency.
With carrying as a motif, I will continue to use agencement as the con- cept best capable of carrying agency. Agencement, whose synonyms include “accommodation,” “adjustment,” “arrangement,” “composition,” “contex- ture,” carries with it a sense of a mobilizing—its movement-toward has an undeniable effect on the conditions of experience in their unfolding. Often read in conjunction with Foucault’s concept of the dispositif (translated as “apparatus”), it has also come to have political connotations in the French, linking it to micropolitics and regimes of power. Agencement: the directed intensity of a compositional movement that alters the field of experience. Agencement directs how the event comes to subjective form. This sub- jective form is not stable across regions of time and space. It is emergent and co-compositional. It is how the event actualizes as event. But as I have mentioned before, this actualization is brief, always already on the cusp of perishing. What is left over, the fullness of its feelings as yet unactualized, is the conduit for new occasions of experience. When Blackman writes that her feelings “are my carrying . . . vibrations, flashes, visual-blocks, touch- horrors, smell-tickles and the cross-over that comes from them,” what she is saying, it seems to me, is that experience doesn’t easily resolve for her. Subjective forms are elusive. What is far more current in her experience are carrying-feelings, feelings that do not emerge from a stable place (i.e., a predefined body) or land in any kind of predictable formation. Feelings
remain lures.
Autistic perception is the ideal modality for carrying the feeling, since autistic perception does not hurry toward form. While the event of percep-
tion does eventually resolve into form, allowing autistics to parse, the fact of living so fully in the act means that the middling of experience is very fa- miliar to them. Blackman can of course move between autistic perception and the chunking of tendencies into subjective forms, and she does. But first, she says, comes the carrying, and so carrying is written into the text before being excised, its excision occurring as though in the real-time of events concrescing. But what of its trace? Can it really be excised? In a ges- ture geared toward neurotypicals, Blackman attempts to background the carrying to make language more stable, and yet the feeling-full is hard to parse into language-forms: the carrying nonetheless makes itself felt, even in its literal absence, weaving its way through the seams of the writing. For carrying is what language does, particularly when language lets itself feel.
In a neurotypical accounting of experience, there is a tendency to orga- nize feeling-forms into articulations that parse experience into manage- able bits. But something else is always also at stake in the operations of expression. Carrying is a conduit in all experience: it is what underlies the mobility of all perception. The main difference between the autistic and the neurotypically inclined is not the modality of perception as such but how perception is fielded. In the neurotypical, because the fielding is more direct in the sense that parsing happens more quickly, the feeling of the subjective-form’s inherent multiplicity is not as foregrounded. This is what allows the neurotypical to be so certain that experience begins with them, in the body, in the human. If we view subjectivity from the perspective of autistic perception, on the other hand, the heterogeneity of feeling makes it more palpable that subjectivity is in the making, in the field. Subjectivity is not felt as predetermining: it is connected to the field of experience as it in-forms it.
Subjectivity is a carrying into existence of feeling-forms self-defining. Subjectivities happen. But they are not where experience begins and ends. They exist in the event of their coming-to-be. There is persistence of sub- jectivities, but not as fully formed entities. Subjectivities persist in germ. This persistence is what we call history. History, from a process philosophy perspective, is the serial activating of a certain degree of continuity. The mistake would be to see this continuity as pure becoming. It is not a conti- nuity of becoming, as Whitehead might say, but a becoming of continuity. Persistence is never persistence of the same, but persistence of a cut that activates the conditions for a seriality in the making.
Serialities in the making rely on the conditions that support their re- telling. Neurotypicality is one of those conditions from which the cut of
subjectivity is persistently defined. The idea of the neurotypical as build- ing block of human existence is so pervasive that not only is it rarely rec- ognized as such, but most of us have overlooked the ways neurotypicality structures our original myths, starting from the idea that humans are dis- tinctly above all other forms of life and extending all the way to the idea that certain forms of human life are more worthwhile than others. As I mention in the introduction, this has had an effect on how we value not only different forms of organic and inorganic existence, but also forms of human difference. Think, again, of the general belief that Down syndrome is not a worthwhile life.4 Or think of the ways in which disabled people are infantilized, and often mistreated in institutions. Think also of the high un- employment of people with disabilities.5 Or think of the destructive ways in which the cure-focused Autism Speaks devalues autistic experience.6 Or think of the ways women have been segregated out of certain professions because of norms around intelligence that exclude them.7 Or think of the legacy of Indigenous politics and the ways in which Indigenous people are ignored, abused, excluded.8 Neurotypicality takes for granted what the human should be and by extension limits the breadth of what a human subjectivity might look like. Here, a kind of mutated natural selection is still at work that believes that the fittest (those we’ve already given the title to) are the ones to whose image we must conform. The neurotypical mantra “I can,” based on a very narrow definition of volition, deactivates experi- ence rather than opening it to its potential. If I can’t, what’s the use?
With carrying as the silent refrain that moves experience in the making, this mantra begins to fall apart. Who is the “I” in the ecological field of expe- rience in the making? How does “I” figure in the crossover Blackman writes about, the crossover that tickles and triggers, that feels the movement in its coloring of experience? How does “I” figure in an account such as Higa- shida’s, where “the voice I can’t control is different” (2013: loc. 182), or in autistic Donna Williams’s complex account of how humans are less bodies than edgings: “I knew people by their edges” (1998: loc. 734)? Where does “I” figure in Ralph Savarese’s important account of autie-type as relational activity—autie-type defined as the persistently poetic coming-to-language of autistics who use facilitated communication. Where does “I” figure in Lucy Blackman’s assertion that “the most interesting reality in my life is the relationship between facilitation and autism” (2013: 106)?
CARRYING LANGUAGE