Facilitated communication (fc), the organization of a support system around communication used by many classical autistics who cannot com- municate with their voice, usually begins with hand support but often per- sists long after hand support is no longer needed. Normative accounts of individual volition suggest that facilitation must mean a lack of authen- ticity as regards communication.9 Indeed, a whole backlash exists which argues that the facilitators are actually doing the writing for the autistics. To be considered properly intelligent, autistics must therefore submit to endless tests that control for individual expression: they must show that their words are really their own. When asked about the importance of in- dependence for communication in an interview, Blackman responds: “That is crazy! Communication is interdependent. It is like asking someone to waltz or foxtrot without a partner” (2013: 113).
The account of facilitation as extra to the autistic, where the “successful” autistic is the one who no longer needs facilitation, is built on a neurotyp- ical identity politics that takes subject-based agency as its driving force. Nowhere in this account is there room to consider how agencement works in the event of communication, or even how facilitation is also part of neu- rotypically inflected experience. Agencement, it bears repeating, is not an action directed by an existing subject, but a force of distributed direction- ality in the event. Each event, including the event of facilitated communi- cation, crafts tendencies toward subjectivation, sometimes leaving traces that connect to subjects in the making, sometimes not. What I want to argue is this: in the navigation of experience, no one is ever alone, and no experience ever emerges without the facilitation of a process that carries the event in its coming to formation.
Lucy Blackman’s 2013 Carrying Autism, Feeling Language (with commen- tary by Mary Jane “Jay” Blackman) everywhere returns to this question of facilitation. Composed almost two decades after Blackman’s first autobi- ographical account of coming to language through facilitation, this recent account, written after having received an ma in English literature and pub- lishing her own fiction, is less about Blackman’s need to prove her intelli- gence than it is about querying the neurotypical assumption that experi- ence, and specifically its relationship to language, is inherently individual (Blackman 2001). Communication and the art of participation in the world for Blackman clearly includes the carrying of facilitation.
Carrying is everywhere present for Blackman—in the act of writing, in the walking, in the eating, in the sensing, in the perceiving. It is not a value judgment on experience, but an articulation of how experience feels, and how it fields: carrying is the expression of the relational force of movement-moving in terms of how bodies and worlds co-compose. Carrying, as the more-than, is therefore also what makes many tasks dif- ficult. For Blackman, for instance, it comes with seemingly infinite sen- sory confusion and overstimulation. Most of her experience, after all, is of autistic perception, a term she uses herself. Autistic perception, for all its exquisite opening toward experience in-forming, is also an often prohib- itive barrier to a neurotypical world. This is because, as I have mentioned throughout, autistic perception does not parse out or select as easily from the welter of co-composition. Autistic perception foregrounds mobility, and to cut into this mobility is singularly difficult. Techniques are of course created by all autistics to make this possible, but even these techniques do not always suffice, for not only does autistic perception—like all per- ception—change and morph over time, requiring a continual set of new ways of making the transition to this world, this time, it is also singularly compelling, enticing the autistic to dwell on the cusp where the world is still in-forming.10 Recall the beauty Higashida describes. This dwelling in autistic perception can make autistics seem unengaged, distracted, when actually they are lingering in the true fullness of attention, lured by infinite complexity. A philosophy of agencement—where the motor of experience is activated by a directional force that facilitates a certain singularization— honors the welter, this singular complexity of a world in-forming. And it honors the lingering. Rather than denying the complexity of autistic per- ception, agencement celebrates its potential, proposing pathways through the more-than that do not reduce it, as though field perceptions were but neutral transitory effects of a solid and finite form-taking.
In neurotypically inflected experience, the more-than also plays an im- portant role. It is simply more backgrounded. Here, the challenge is often the opposite: we neurotypicals, especially the ones interested in processual activities such as artmaking, or those of us engaged in exploring movement, must learn to develop techniques to chunk less quickly, and must habituate ourselves to the idea that form is not the concrete and finite structure we have likely been taught it is.11 Our challenge is to become more attentive to how the more-than is eclipsed in our perceptions of experience and, in so doing, to become more attuned to what James calls pure experience. James writes: “My thesis is that if we start with the supposition that there is only
one primal stuff or material in the world, a stuff of which everything is com- posed, and if we call that stuff ‘pure experience,’ then knowing can easily be explained as a particular sort of relation towards one another into which portions of pure experience may enter. The relation itself is a part of pure experience; one of its ‘terms’ becomes the subject or bearer of the knowl- edge, the knower, the other becomes the object known” (1996: 4). Pure experience suggests that all experience is relational, knower and known defined not in advance of the occasion but in the midst. James continues:
According to my view, experience as a whole is a process in time, whereby innumerable particular terms lapse and are superseded by others that follow upon them by transitions which, whether disjunc- tive or conjunctive in content, are themselves experiences, and must in general be accounted at least as real as the terms which they relate. . . . In such a world transitions and arrivals (or terminations) are the only events that happen, though they happen by so many sorts of path. The only function that one experience can perform is to lead into another experience; and the only fulfillment we can speak of is the reaching of a certain experienced end. When one experience leads to (or can lead to) the same end as another, they agree in function. But the whole system of experiences as they are immediately given presents itself as a quasi- chaos through which one can pass out of an initial term in many direc- tions and yet end in the same terminus, moving from next to next by a great many possible paths. (1996: 62–63)
Autistic Thomas McKean describes this well: “I don’t think what I see is what you see. That is unless what you see are vague clouds and shadows of substance. . . . I am pretty good at deciphering what I am looking at now after practice but sometimes I do still have troubles, especially with colors” (in Bogdashina 2005: loc. 576). Blackman’s orbit is also an account of pure experience. Recall that she describes the orbit as only hers insofar as she moves with it. It is not hers in the sense that it belongs to something prede- termined as “I.” It is a carrying-feeling, a vibratory moving-with. The world of pure experience orbits as much as it is orbit: it is a world felt in the non- conscious, active in edgings of experience that are more contributory than actual, real but virtual.
To activate pure experience for conscious expression is to move that ex- perience across the carrying toward a vocabulary that stabilizes it, at least to an extent. This is extremely difficult, in no small part because the pars- ing requires a parsing of sensation into meaning. This challenge is one dis-
cussed by all autistics I have come across. It requires a composing-with of perception’s edging into experience, a composing-with of the beneath of words.12 Composing-with always requires a certain reorienting of the expe- riential. How to articulate in words sensation, rhythm, feeling?
In Blackman’s case, this would already be difficult were her movements through the world predictable. But they aren’t. Like so many other classical autistics, body and world co-compose to a large degree in ways that are nonlinear and unforeseeable. Higashida writes: “Your vestibular and pro- prioceptive senses are . . . out of kilter, so the floor keeps tilting like a gerry in heavy seas, and you’re no longer sure where your hands and feet are in relation to the rest of you . . . Even your sense of time has gone, rendering you unable to distinguish between a minute and an hour, as if you’ve been entombed in an Emily Dickinson poem about eternity, or locked into a time-bending Science Fiction film” (2013: loc. 45). “Even before we start interacting,” writes Blackman, “we are handicapped. Our eyes and brain don’t always process colour and depth very well, and these are the basis of ‘reading’ faces. And then we have problems with sequencing movement, and this is how most people interpret body language and expression” (2013: 8). Without a clear sense of linear or metric time, without a strong sense of depth perception, with a shifting panoply of edgings of color and texture, how to field experience in a way that enables the kind of parsing necessary for so many neurotypically inclined tasks?
The world of pure experience is for all of us a shape-shifting as-yet- unparsed ecology, but for autistics, because they dwell in autistic percep- tion more than neurotypicals do, the ungainliness of its potential is fore- grounded in ways that make more apparent the necessity for agencement. Agencement, like its sister concept the minor gesture, comes from the field, from the region of experience toward which and through which the event is unfolding. In neurotypical experience, this process of the shift from the as-yet-unparsed to perception is so backgrounded that the agencement nec- essary to bring things into focus seems to occur volitionally, in the subject, in the individual body. As I have argued throughout, this is a mirage sup- ported by the identity politics of neurotypical able-bodiedness, fed to most of us from earliest childhood by our cultural surrounds and bolstered by our education. Because this viewpoint is so pervasive, autistics are made to feel as though their way of functioning is completely off.
If instead of succumbing to the neurotypical account as ground of expe- rience we begin with autistic perception, the focus changes. We move from the idea that the act must be directly allied to an individual’s volition toward
an account of agencement. Donna Williams explains: “Because things that were meant to be tuned out weren’t, these things were all competing for pro- cessing when they shouldn’t have been. I was jumping between processing the white of the page as well as the print, the flicker of light and shadow as well as the objects themselves, the sounds of the people moving about in between syllables of words being said at the same time, the rustle of clothing and the sound of my own voice” (1996: 92). The competition for processing, as Williams calls it, foregrounds the workings of agencement emphasizing the nonvolitional share of event-directionality. Event-directionality makes stabilizing difficult, however. Blackman explains: “Eventually as an adult I came to understand that other people could stand still because the world around them was triangulated. That is they could work out distance from something from their own depth perception. They could then feel their feet (or their bottom if they were sitting down) as another point in this meta- phorical triangle” (2013: 9). Autistic perception, because of its direct engage- ment with the field in-forming, does not privilege the kind of triangulation Blackman believes facilitates standing still in the neurotypical population. Because parsing comes more slowly, stability remains evasive. The irony is that triangulation is not actually how neurotypicals move—it is simply how they account for their movement in the backgrounding that comes through conscious reappraisal. After the fact, in the account that returns volition to the subject, we parse our movements as though planned in advance to op- erate in this or that specific arrangement. In the event, however, as I out- lined in the last chapter, movement has more to do with incipient choreog- raphies of movement-moving than with subject-directed agency. At issue is therefore not simply the question of parsing, but how directionality is allied to incipiency. What might a technique look like that facilitated a kind of movement-moving that privileged the welter of autistic perception?13
For Blackman the world is always encountered anew, in the midst, and its infinite mobility just doesn’t seem to facilitate the kinds of movement arrangements that would allow her to pass as neurotypical. It’s not that there isn’t also in autism the capacity for a conscious accounting of ex- perience after the fact. It’s just that, even post facto, triangulation doesn’t compute. There is no stable surface, no stable ground, no fixed structure, with which she could easily triangulate. When the body-world continuum is not ruptured, an account of where one begins and the other ends simply doesn’t make sense. If everything is in motion, if everything is process, feet and ground co-composing, skin and air, vision and wind, sound and depth, how to select one body, one experience, one object?
FACILITATION IN THE FIELD