Also: “Speech grows in one for a number of reasons” (Blackman 2013: 9). What might it mean, in the context of a world that doesn’t parse easily, for language to “grow in one”? What would facilitate such a growing of lan- guage? What carries language? Can the carrying, the growing of language, of speech, have different rhythms, different sonorities? Can language be in line with autistic perception? And if so, how is this facilitated?
Facilitation is usually understood as anathema to independence. In au- tism research and education, the term facilitated communication has been used, as I mentioned above, to discredit autistics’ capacity to think and write. A person who needs facilitation is understood to be incapable, to varying degrees, of directing their own experience. All of these beliefs around facilitation are neurotypical to the core. With an account that be- gins with pure experience, where predetermined subjectivity is not at the forefront, where the event-orienting agencement is what moves experience, facilitation begins to mean something quite different. Is facilitation not everywhere present in experience, all along the spectrum of neurodiver- sity? What communication could ever happen without agencement? If we consider facilitation as the conduit, the agencement of a field of forces, what movement does not require it? What movement is not directed by it?
Lucy Blackman makes it clear that for her facilitation cannot be re- duced to an active-passive relationship. Nor is facilitation strictly reduced to hands-on assistance. It does not simply mean to “create a path . . . for reaching certain objectives” (2013: 35). Quite the contrary. For Blackman facilitation is about developing a reciprocity in a field of experience that unlocks directed movement in a way that enables communication in and beyond language. “All I know is that some kind of touch or reciprocity makes me calmer, and the greater certainty of success in hitting the key that I visualize means that I can express the visual language which for so many years I had been cherishing” (2013: 35). Facilitation happens in the relation. Facilitation might for instance mean discovering together how to create what Blackman calls a “coactive sensation of touch,” how to create a certain contact, hands on or off, that might stabilize vision, how to invent a certain sense of presence that can trigger an activation that in turn can propel a thought into the actualization of words on a keyboard. However it unfolds, what is most important about facilitation is that it evolves in the emergent field of relation not only of autistic and facilitator, but of the wider ecology itself continuously transformed by this collaboration.
In the context of writing, Blackman describes facilitation as regulating an impulse. Her words simply don’t transfer to the keyboard easily. She writes: “In my mind I feel as if my hand is moving in the direction of each letter-key, but that impulse doesn’t transfer itself to my real hand unless something is triggering the movement. By trigger, I don’t mean a jerk or push. If you were to point at something, the trigger would be your intent. However the intention or motivation in my mind somehow gets lost in my body” (2013: 35). For her, touch, even a simple contact on the thigh, “is the conduit that gets some kind of impulse more organized” (2013: 35– 36). How to think of this contact, of this relation, in other terms than those of the worn dichotomy of independence/dependence or volition/non- volition?
Perhaps the best place to begin is, once again, with movement. Neuro- typically inflected movement is usually taken to be voluntary. As outlined in the last chapter, the presupposition tends to be that the subject moves the movement. I want an apple, I reach for an apple, I take the apple into my hand, I move the apple to my mouth, I bite the apple. The neurotypi- cal takes this sequence for granted, believing that the motion was unfacili- tated, placing the “I” at the center of each gesture. The autistic, on the other hand, because of sequencing issues and difficulties with activation, may not be capable of “volitionally” grabbing and eating the apple. The apple may nonetheless get taken and eaten, but it might just as well end up staying on the counter because for some strange reason the body moved away from the table. Voluntary/nonvoluntary would be an easy dichotomy to use to separate out these two experiences. But if instead of beginning with agency we turn to agencement, asking not what the subject did but what the event proposed, another version of the task comes to light.
Let’s say that in both cases we are in the same kitchen. The tending toward apple for the neurotypical is likely facilitated first by a sense of hun- ger. In this situation, hunger may seem solely located in the body, but it is actually an effect of the field. Think, for instance, of how often hunger strikes at the idea of food, even without a prior conscious sense of being hungry. In these cases the food acts as an agencement to hunger, activating the experience of “a body feeling hungry.” This is equally the case when the food isn’t actually there. When this happens the subjective aim is tuned to a virtual object. In either case, actually or virtually, pulled by the sense of hunger, you find yourself reaching. The apple becomes the facilitator for a gesture that does not strictly belong to you. This gesture is in an ecology of hunger, apple, body, movement. The apple activates it in co-occurrence
with the feeling of hunger, and the reaching responds. What is emerging is an event of hunger appeasement.
In the reaching, something else happens as well. Perceptually, a pars- ing has occurred that singles out the apple from the counter and every- thing around it. This parsing, with the nonsensuous perception that accom- panies it, also brings along a felt impression that the apple has a specific size, depth, weight. You see it as an object, and, in doing so, you unsee the environment with which it co-composes. This allows the reaching to be precise. You grab it, and the apple finds itself in your hand exactly as you had previously seen-felt it, or so it seems. This grabbing, which included a seeing-touch previous to the actual touching, was made possible by the hapticity in the visual perception, which provided, in advance of the actual touching, a sense of what the apple might feel like, a feeling that likely also is starting to include a preconscious tasting. Your mouth is already water- ing. This doubling of touch-vision mixed with the tripling of touch-taste- vision, which includes a singular parsing for hunger-apple-reaching, allows you to grab the apple and bring it to your mouth. You take a bite of it, most likely unaware of the complex movement just executed.
In the case of the autistic, things may not go so smoothly. First, hunger and impulse-control may be overlaid, leading toward actions that are more confusing than those outlined above. Blackman speaks of her echolalic ten- dency of saying “McDonald’s” whenever she sees the large M of the restau- rant’s “golden arches.” This tends to lead people to assume that she wants to eat there, when in fact she doesn’t like the food. She writes:
[In crowded restaurants] I reverted to asking for food that I associated with that kind of interaction, but this was less a request for what I really wanted to eat as a memory process. I had to make do with what I had preprogrammed, much as the way I would ask for a hamburger if I saw a McDonald’s. I learned this was involuntary the day we were standing on a pedestrian crossing in sight of the big gold M. We were talking about where we would have lunch, and I typed, “please don’t let me make you go to mcdonald’s!” As I got to “the M word,” my voice cut in and I declaimed “McDonal’!!” while physically tugging at my bewildered companion so forcibly that we ended up through the sliding doors and in the line of surf-crazy youngsters almost before she was aware of it, and certainly before she could begin to analyze her own responses. (2013: 68–69)
Here, the lack of impulse-control becomes its own kind of foothold on ex- perience, fostering as it does an agencement not directly allied to the feeling of the event at hand, but to a spectral feeling activated in the repetition of a memory. A kind of short-circuit of nonsensuous perception takes over, the past fielding the present against what the current moment desires. Two event-paths collide. The more-than is here revealed in all of its contradic- tions as the surplus that should have been excluded. But this is the effect of autistic perception—that exclusion is difficult. Lack of inhibition has its advantages and its disadvantages.
Say McDonalds were nowhere close by, and the impulse controlled itself enough to direct the field of attention toward the apple on the counter in the kitchen. Another challenge might still be in store. The apple might just not resolve itself clearly for perception, backgrounding itself instead in experience. The vase beside it, reflecting the sunlight, might stand out much more. In this case, the hunger agencement might be redirected toward a light-reflection agencement, thus leading the autistic’s movement toward the vase despite what they initially perceived as their actual interest in the apple. This might confuse the onlooker, who might then assume that the autistic wasn’t hungry, or, worse, that she couldn’t distinguish between vase and apple. If this is the case, other techniques will need to be invented that facilitate the right balance between depth perception, color, tactility, hun- ger, and movement. This facilitation is likely going to involve another per- son with whom the environment in its unfolding will be navigated in ways that will morph over time based on the needs of the relation.
Placing “carrying” in front of words is a way of inscribing, for thought and language, this necessity of relation, foregrounding how each act neces- sitates its own variety of carrying across the field of experience. For Black- man, touch does a lot of this carrying. Speaking of how touch facilitates the process of coming to language, she writes: “What I did not realize then was that when I tried to plan [a] movement, I was unaware of the exact position of my fingertip in time and space, much as I was uncomfortable walking on slopes because my foot and my sight were sufficiently out of sync to make me uncertain as to the exact moment my sole could start to bear my weight” (2013: 23). Facilitation, she continues, was capable of “unlock[ing] purpose- ful movement” (2013: 21). “A hand on my arm or wrist makes a comfortable control, and a continual challenge by the difficulties of sustaining my con- centration makes coherent language overcome the intellectual cascades of my internal thoughts” (2013: 35). Even when Blackman no longer needed
hands-on facilitation to write, she continued to feel strongly that the “reci- procity” of facilitation was essential. To repeat: “All I know is that some kind of touch or reciprocity makes me calmer, and the greater certainty of success in hitting the key that I visualize means that I can express the visual language which for so many years I had been cherishing” (2013: 35).
This kind of facilitation, seen as the creation of a relational field for ex- perience in the making, is quite common in the everyday. Think of the university classroom, of the ways in which pedagogical tools are used to activate discussion, to pull thinking out from the group, to generate new movements of thought. This collective act is understood to be a key part of education, and yet the facilitation needed by many autistics is still too often understood as interfering with what is considered the “natural” in- dependence key to learning, as though thinking-with or composing-with were not at the very heart of experience. This is not the only irony, as Black- man rightly points out: where the neurotypical is assumed to be inher- ently relational in terms of intersubjectivity, the autistic is far too often still wrongly considered to be incapable of relation. This makes the critique of facilitation particularly paradoxical: “It is . . . funny . . . that the principal objection—but I have to say not the only objection—to hands-on sup- port is the possibility of influence, and the likely feeling of close emotional connection, both of which are typically [regarded as] deficits in autistic relationships!” (2013: 39).14
For Blackman, another role the facilitator plays involves “standing in” to activate her visual field. Blackman’s technique for this is “to make the other person a part of my visual field” (2013: 81). She reasons that the necessity comes from having lived with “real problems knowing exactly where my connectional limbs and trunk were, where they would move to next, and, even more frighteningly, where they had last been positioned” (2013: 81). Facilitation, and specifically the body of the facilitator, is here used as an enabling constraint—it allows the field of vision to settle around a spe- cific area. This kind of “mirror imaging,” as Blackman calls it, controls her “visual fluctuations” by setting up a living boundary or an orbit around a certain situation. Blackman does this by borrowing what she perceives as her facilitator’s body-space to secure a landing in a more coherent fielding of time and space. Blackman describes it this way:
[Imagine] a hypothetical little old lady walking in the same direction I am. As she moves, so do I because her body is now mine—that is until her movement is out of kilter with what I project as the future. In that
event I float off, or if really terrified, . . . I scream and then bite my hand on the existing scar below my thumb. . . . I can’t see why other people cannot understand that people with autism need the other partner in an inter- action to do what my mother describes as “socialize for two.” (2013: 81)
If we take Blackman’s example and read it from the perspective of a body-world continuum—“[not] knowing exactly where my connectional limbs and trunk were, where they would move to next, and, even more frighteningly, where they had last been positioned”—it seems to me that what is happening in the mirroring is not the taking-over of a body, but a doubling onto a becoming-body. Blackman must do this to land because the dimensions of her existence are still orbiting. In this case, the facilitator acts as the agencement for the bodying.
Socializing for two is therefore always less “for two” than about the more-than one. It is the more-than that is sought in the mirror imag- ing, a more-than that can act as both the activator and the stabilizer of movement-moving. The facilitator acts as a bridge, Blackman suggests. This is not a bridge between two precomposed subjects, but within a field of tendencies that work together to create a momentary boundedness. This boundedness continues to carry a certain mobility, tending in ways that fa- cilitate the production of sense out of welter without negating the fullness of experience. When facilitation tunes toward communication, the bridge similarly allows sense-making to keep its complexity. This is not to suggest, of course, that writing is the only way to communicate. Autistic experi- ence is lively with forms of communication “beneath the words.” As Ame- lia Baggs has shown in her important video In My Language, all language cannot be reduced to the spoken/written word. What of the language of movement, of texture, the language of sound merging with color, of edg- ings vibrating to the rhythm of weather patterns, of thoughts lingering in the prearticulation where words are not yet? Sadly, too often, written com- munication trumps nonconscious forms of communication: in a largely neurotypically inflected society, written communication continues to be what most strongly demarcates the “intelligent” from the “nonintelligent.”15