Facilitated Communication opens up experience, accommodating the agencements of the field in its co-composition. And yet because agency and volition are so prized in the neurotypical worldview, it continues to be seen
as a counter to “really” individual expression. Many autistics therefore find themselves having to fiercely guard their so-called “independence” from facilitation, not because they don’t honor the relation, but because with it they are not perceived to be so-called independent thinkers. Speaking of the relentless focus on the question of independence, Blackman writes: “I find it really difficult to understand why other people are more interested in the process of what I produce than the content. I have sometimes felt that being a demo is not the point of my being a student, and really that this kind of discussion is more about wanting to be ‘normal’ (which I don’t) than about what I am achieving in terms of pure intellectual thought” (2013: 80).
This common belief that facilitation and self-expression are counter to one another is compounded by the fact that studies of autistic language done by neuroscientists, for instance, see it as a necessity to segregate au- tistics from their facilitators during the experiment, thereby underscoring the accepted belief that true language emerges independently of another person. The result is that autistics tend to grow language always with an overhanging belief imposed from the outside that the language will only truly be theirs if they can write in a vacuum. Not only does this completely undermine the notion of how relation activates the complexity of experi- ence, it also comes with another danger—that autistics may lose the poetic voice that emerges with facilitation. Blackman writes: “I love getting flashes of autistic perception. This is a picture of what my brain makes of what I see, hear and feel from my skin, balance and body-in-space. That is who I am. That is how I felt almost continuously as a child. As an adult I can see and hear much more like typical people, but my underlying brain processes are still quite different” (2013: 117). Forcing herself to write independently has in some senses been a loss for Blackman, who feels that the emphasis on certain ways of coming to cognition has depleted her experience of au- tistic perception and, with it, affected the poetics of autie-type. Likening language to “a chaotic sludge [which] transforms to clarity in intent” (2013: 106), Blackman mourns her poetic voice:
My inside language had changed completely. Previously my mind and my voice had warbled and cooed in unison, and my typed language and my visual words were positively reinforced by that magical process. . . . In a path to rather more typical language processing, I lost the most pre- cious gift of the poetry of thought, of a dancing and swooping mind and body. . . . Of course, I still had most wonderful control of words and I
drew great pleasure from fluent prose writing, but had more thought- work in putting the characters in my brain through my finger and onto a screen. In my mind I had words, but I had not retained the gift of autistic enjoyment to the extent I had before. (2013: 106)
The irony is that the backlash against facilitated communication (the be- lief that the facilitator imposes their voice onto that of autistics) and the re- sulting insistence that autistics prove their ability to write “independently” seems to have been yet another way of segregating autistics from their po- tential. As Blackman argues, it isn’t facilitation that backgrounds her sin- gular poetic voice, but precisely the focus on independence and its em- phasis on “more typical language processing.” As she became more and more capable of writing beyond the register of facilitation, it seems that her language began to lose the rhythm and tonality of autie-type, the composing-with of autistic perception. For instead of deadening the liveli- ness of perception’s complexity, as language is wont to do, autie-type seems to be singularly capable of funneling it, carrying into language its preartic- ulations. This is not to say that the force of autie-type is completely absent in Blackman’s writing. It is simply to note that it is backgrounded in com- parison to the poetic writings of autie-typers such as Tito Mukhopadhyay, DJ Savarese, Larry Bissonnette.16 Is it because in their case facilitation con- tinues to be more present, either in the form of direct contact or in a more relational sense? Or is it because Blackman’s writing has been influenced by her academic experience? Either way, let there be no question: Lucy Black- man remains not only a poetic thinker, but also a poetic writer. Everywhere in her prose carrying the feeling moves thinking in the act, composing- across the complexity of how to articulate the unsayable in the said.