In my attempt to think beyond the neurotypical aligning of volition, in- tentionality, and agency, I am of course not suggesting that no will is pres- ent in movement. Volition always has a role to play in the way expression arises. A shift away from the triad simply suggests that volition is not where we usually assume it is: it is not ahead of experience, but in experience, in the between of the conscious and the nonconscious, actively composing in the ecology of practices. This has ethical consequences. What is at stake in the pervasive account of aligning subject-based volition to experience? What happens to our unwavering belief in neurotypicality as the measure
of human existence when its central tenets are put into question? Similarly, what happens to the narrative of neurodiversity when we stop speaking of the involuntary—or, better said, the nonvoluntary—as though it were other to “better” ways of moving, of thinking, of speaking?
William James’s essay “The Feeling of Effort” is very interesting in this regard. Beginning with an account of neurotypical experience, James ex- plores the place of volition in movement. Here, he proposes a vocabulary for feeling that refuses to be led by a concept of subject-based agency, exploring instead, like Whitehead does, how the aim, active in the event, creates the conditions for the act in its unfolding. The concept James will later use to articulate this—terminus—is not yet part of this early piece, and yet its presence is everywhere felt. For this reason, it is useful to be- come familiar with the sway of the concept of terminus as it plays out in his later Essays in Radical Empiricism before turning to how volition is the- orized in “The Feeling of Effort.”
In Essays in Radical Empiricism, James writes: “Knowledge of sensible realities . . . comes to life inside the tissue of experience. It is made; and made by relations that unroll themselves in time. Whenever certain inter- mediaries are given, such that, as they develop toward their terminus, there is experience from point to point of one direction followed, and finally of one process fulfilled, the result is that their starting-point thereby becomes a knower and their terminus an object meant or known” (1996: 57). In “The Feeling of Effort,” James similarly sees the feeling as occurring “inside the tissue of experience.” Yet, and this is where his later work assists in the un- derstanding of the text, while created in the relation—“made by relations that unroll themselves in time”—the feeling (of effort) only comes into itself as such through the motor of a terminus. The terminus is what vec- torizes the agencement, pulling the force-of-form to singular expression. This motor is not the end point in any direct sense. It is a force that acti- vates the movement. The terminus acts as the pull, setting up the field that becomes the knower-known relation. Here, once again, there is not yet a predetermined subject or object, but rather, as Whitehead might hesitantly say, recipient and provoker.17
The field’s concern for its parsing cannot be separated out from what is experienced. The pull of the terminus moves the event, but is not the event. How the event comes to be, its subjective form, is how the knower- known relations have resolved themselves for this singular occasion, com- ing together in just this way. The coming-into-itself of the event is therefore simply goal-oriented. The terminus is not the end as seen from a neutral-
ized external perspective. The event, as I have emphasized before, is not pure process: it is actively disjunctive—a becoming of continuity, not a continuity of becoming. “In a world where both the terms and their dis- tinctions are affairs of experience, conjunctions that are experienced must be at least as real as anything else. They will be ‘absolutely’ real conjunc- tions” ( James 1996: 60). How the conjunction or the disjunction operates is how the event has come to be. Importantly: without disjunction there would be no cut, no cleaving, no inflection, no minor gesture. No event would ever come to be. Terminus is the operative pull of this coming to be, not its predetermining result.
James continues:
So much for the essentials of the cognitive relation, where the knowl- edge is conceptual in type, or forms knowledge “about” an object. It consists in intermediary experiences (possible, if not actual) of continu- ously developing progress, and, finally, of fulfillment, when the sensible percept, which is the object, is reached. The percept here not only veri- fies the concept, proves its function of knowing that percept to be true, but the percept’s existence as the terminus of the chain of intermediaries creates the function. Whatever terminates that chain was, because it now proves itself to be, what the concept “had in mind.” (1996: 60–61)
If the autistic grabs the vase instead of the apple, it is too simple to say that her body didn’t go where her mind wanted to. What actually happened is that the apple, as terminus, despite being the motor of the event, was sup- planted by the insistence of the light-ray, which monopolized the event in its in-forming to such a degree that it ended up becoming the conduit for the reaching-movement. This, as James might say, was what the event ended up “having in mind.” This is not to deny the frustration of the hungry autistic who now has a vase in her hand. It is to emphasize that the volun- tary/involuntary dichotomy devalues the complexity of what has actually happened. Neurotypical experience is not so different. Its ends simply look different because what the event had in mind more often seems to cohere with where the movement was initially going. The challenge is to under- stand the agencement of terminus as an activity of the field itself, and to be- come aware of the backgridding necessary, even on the neurotypical end of the spectrum, to make the terminus conform in its generative pull to the subjective aim.
The feeling of effort can perhaps assist us in understanding this play, in the terminus, between agencement and aim. James begins “The Feeling
of Effort” by asking where effort comes from in the movement act. Is the effort situated in the body? Can it be consciously aligned to a muscle? Does the effort “come from us”? Or must we think the feeling of effort of a move- ment more in alignment with the notion of “the effort to remember, . . . the effort to make a decision, or to attend to a disagreeable task” (1969: 154)?
For James, the feeling of effort is less connected to a specific tissue or muscle mass in the body than to the field of experience. The feeling of effort, like the percept above, creates the function. “Our motions are the ends of our seeing,” writes James. “The marksman thinks only of the ex- act position of the goal, the singer only of the perfect sound, the balancer only of the point in space whose oscillations he must counteract by move- ment, . . . each variation in the thought of the end . . . functionally cor- related with the one movement fitted to bring the latter about” (1969: 156). It is the terminus that activates the sequencing which, as James underlines above, “now proves itself to be what the concept ‘had in mind’” (1969: 61). Movement folds through movement, its parsing activated not by a volition occurring outside the event, but by the very flow of movement-moving nonconsciously coursing through the pull of the terminus.
But what happens when the terminus is a region of incipient activity? Turning to autistic perception, where the terminus is less differentiated, or more mobile, the question is to what degree the reaching for the vase in- stead of the apple must be read as a movement gone wrong. In this context, how do we understand James’s proposition that “the end conceived will, when these associations are formed, always awaken its own proper motor idea” (1969: 157).
Termini—or motor ideas—are infinite and variable. The terminus is not one movement, one object reached-toward, but a region of variation. For the neurotypical, whose ability to parse-in-movement is more avail- able than it is for the autistic, the parsing can seem projective, and there- fore voluntary. The apple rests in the hand because there was the intention to take the apple off the counter. But how many times have you landed at the refrigerator with the door open and wondered what you were there for? How many times have you wandered around the bedroom looking for your reading glasses, the ones hanging around your neck? Movement only seems voluntary in the neurotypically inflected reflective consciousness because it connects with what the concept had in mind to the degree that there is a lack of feeling of effort. It all seems straightforward, you think, as you bring the apple to your mouth. The movement comes from me.
And yet there’s still the issue of the open fridge. “The end conceived . . . [will] always awaken its own proper motor idea.” That a movement will, in conscious reappraisal, be found to have aligned to what the event had in mind is what makes the movement seem subject-directed. This ha- bitual reappraisal of how we’ve gotten somewhere (I don’t know how I got home—I must have walked one step after the other), or how we’ve brought the food to our mouths (I don’t remember eating, but yes, I must have moved my hand to my lips repeatedly), or how we’ve typed this chap- ter (I don’t remember seeing the keys in their singularity, but since the es- say is in front of me, I must have fingered the right keys), is how we develop our sense of intention and volition. Because the frame of the movement for the most part fits our idea of where we needed to go, we align the two and are confident the movement emerged from our personal directives. And when this fails, for instance when we fall on the ice or miss our mouths with our water glass or type the wrong letter, we laugh and say we must have been distracted. But attention is more complex than this, and this is what we learn from autistic perception.
When you missed your lips with your water glass, you weren’t unat- tending. You were likely strongly in attendance, just not to the glass. There was a deviation, unrecognized in the moment, but with consequences for the future. At that moment of what you might like to call distraction, the region of the motor idea expanded, and with that expansion the precision you are accustomed to in your movements was jeopardized. Consider this event of attention fielding to be the common experience of many autistics. If “the end conceived awakens its own proper motor idea” and the motor idea is in the field of relation, it follows that the movement activated may not conform to expectation.
Dancing, I experience this often. Take an example from Argentine tango. The relational movement at the core of an improvisational salon tango practice depends on preacceleration, the virtual force of a movement- moving before it is consciously felt as such.18 This feeling is shared. If I am leading a movement and I want the other dancer to follow, the movement in its incipiency must be felt in advance of its becoming an actual displace- ment, for it is into this incipiency that her movement will move. The incip- iency cues the movement-moving. What I am leading is not a form, but a force, a tendency, and it is to this tendency that her movement must tune. This tendency is enveloped in a terminus, but a terminus to a large degree activated in the relation. When it happens, as it often does, that a second
tendency “distracts” me, my partner will move into the tendency I didn’t think I led. She will move into the movement-moving of a deviation-on- terminus. In response to the follower moving to tendency, the leader must reorient, often facilitating an orientation neither could have predicted in advance. This is relational movement at its best.
This is similar to what happens with autistics. When Naoki Higashida writes, “We are outside the normal flow of time, we can’t express ourselves, and our bodies are hurtling us through life,” what he is suggesting, it seems to me, is that life’s pull, the complexity of the field of activity of autistic per- ception, is so strong that he often has trouble feeling the sense of a single directionality within it (2013: loc. 583). The agencement of potential as region is simply too strong, and with it, the motor ideas or termini simply too diverse. And so he jogs and walks “to refresh” his body, and “once re- freshed, I kind of feel back home within myself. My sense of gravity is re- stored, and that calms me down” (2013: loc. 688). Like Blackman’s touch, Naoki Higashida’s running quiets down the field of sensation, and with this quietening, the pull of the field into a single tendency comes more clearly to attention. Here, momentarily, a sense of agency is felt. But this is not subject-oriented agency. It is agency in the event, agency facilitated by the conditions of this singular field of experience coming into itself just this way. The agencement moves the event in a way that makes attention field in conformity with it. When we speak of not “paying attention,” when we accuse autistics or anyone else of not being attentive, we are often un- dervaluing the complex modalities attending, in the event, to experience in the making.