There is often a presumption that volition and attention work together. In this kind of analysis, attention is seen as that which is consciously directed by the subject. But attention, as I’ve suggested elsewhere, is more distrib- uted than it is situated.19 It emerges in the event, activated by the force of directionality the event calls forth. This dance of attention—where it is the field that attends and attention is less parsed than environmental—is alive in autistic perception. It is true to say that in the more neurotypically in- flected experience, attention does land more easily, but even here it would be a misnomer to suggest that it lands on a predefined subject or object. Attention lands as a vector, activating the subjective form of the event, not a precategorized subject. Like the feeling of effort, attention is culled from
the event, its force a pull that organizes the event into the tendency it will follow. Moved by the directedness of the event’s force-of-form, attention dances toward the singular experience it has revealed.
In James’s “The Feeling of Effort,” there is a strong emphasis on how the terminus and attention work together. Again, a subject-oriented ap- proach is critiqued: will is not the activator of the pull. Attention is fielded relationally rather than directed by a volitional subject: “Our standing up, walking, talking, all this never demands a distinct impulse of the will, but is adequately brought about by the pure flux of thought” (Lotze in James 1969: 183). Thought, James underlines, is “intercurrent” with action. The movement of thought, which James sometimes calls a “representation,” is not representation in any usual sense. The movement of thought is not a precomposed image. It is a virtual event, an activity on the edge of move- ment, a preacceleration. Attention is in the relation.
In autistic perception, it’s not that attention is diluted, as is often as- sumed.20 It’s that attention is magnified. Higashida writes: “When a color is vivid or a shape is eye-catching, then that’s the detail that claims our atten- tion, and then our hearts kind of drown in it, and we can’t concentrate on anything else” (2013: loc. 513). The pull of the field is extremely powerful. As Donna Williams writes:
Most people perceive objects beyond their grainy, sheeny, reflective, flowing, coloured or opaque appearances, beyond their smooth, raspy, cold, textured tactile experience, beyond the sounds of their chink- ing, thud-thud, tap-tap surfaces when impacted upon, their sweet, or savoury or chemical tastes or smells, their flexibility, solidness or bounce when bitten into or impacted upon. Most people experience the object before the art of it. They whisk over the sensory into the lit- eral and experience themselves not just in the company of glass, wood, metal, paper, plastic derived objects but beyond this to the significant; that these objects are for cooking, decoration, belong to their neigh- bour, require a good clean etc. (1998: loc. 93)
This overlooking inherent to neurotypical perception, this unattending to the field, leads to a very limited exploration of what the field can do. The at- tending only to the parsing undermines the potential of the relational field, leading the neurotypical to perceive far less of what appears around them. How can we learn from autistics to become more attuned to the dance of attention? What techniques can we put into place to open the world to its constellations of potential?
Within neurotypical accounts of perception and attention, with the focus on volition, intentionality, and agency, comes a recurrent account of the sensory-motor. James explains:
The ordinary “voluntary” act results in this way: First, some feeling pro- duces a movement in a reflex, or as we say, accidental way. The move- ment excites a sensorial tract, causing a feeling which, whenever the sen- sorial tract functions again, revives as an idea. Now the sensorial and motor tracts, thus associated in their actions, remain associated forever afterwards, and as the motor originarily aroused the sensory, so the sen- sory may now arouse the motor (provided no outlying ideational tracts in connection with it prevent it from so doing). Voluntary acts are in fact nothing but acts whose motor centres are so constituted that they can be aroused by these sensorial centres, whose excitement was origi- nally their effect. (1969: 189–190)
The sensory-motor is only a small aspect of how perception, attention, and movement work together. A movement felt is a movement-moving. The movement does not flow in a cause-effect scenario that begins with a push from outside itself. Rather, the movement is felt from the middling of its incipient directionality. It is felt because of how it lands, and how it lands is what constitutes its subjective form. Movement does not operate in any absolutely directive sense. It is not linear: it is more recursive— what the feeling has felt, what becomes this led and followed movement in the tango example, is how movement-moving has moved into its relational aim, spurred by a terminus that is less its goal than its activator. A move- ment learns from what it has done, of course—this is where technique comes in—but it is never limited to that learning. Virtuality courses every- where in movement-moving, its preaccelerations affecting how attention fields and perception settles. Movement therefore cannot be considered as limited to the circuit of the sensory-motor. Movement is by its very nature generative of difference.
Autistics speak of the difficulty of associating one movement-event to another. Whereas a neurotypical might consider every coffee cup to be one and the same in the sense that a coffee cup is anything in which coffee can be drunk, an autistic might be more likely to see the complexity of each cup’s difference, challenging the sensory-motor assumption that re- petitive tasks easily sort themselves into habits that can then be taken up in a different scenario. Blackman explains: “[As a child] each time I was introduced to [a] practical skill by new baby-sitters, and later by teach-
ers, it was as if it were the very first time, because the concrete movement in my own body was in a completely different universe from the world of chaotic artifacts which I was expected to place in some kind of arbitrary order. In the fullness of time some of these tasks became comprehensi- ble, but this did not mean that I was motivated to perform the jobs that all these people considered important” (2013: 34). The field remains open to potential variation. There is no question that this can be discouraging for autistics, who often mention that they would like the repetition of everyday tasks to come more easily to them.
What autistic perception makes clear is that there is a gap in movement- moving that opens up the sensory-motor to difference. This gap is more about an overfeeling than a lack. It is Forsythe’s what else, or, in Kawaku- bo’s procedural fashioning, the remains—what is left over in the passage from force to form. For the neurotypical, this unparsable share tends to get overlaid by inhibition: it is what we actively don’t experience. This is why we don’t tend to perceive it. James suggests that the feeling of volition is less about volition than about inhibition. This is why we feel it as effort: the feeling of effort comes from actively not doing, not seeing, not moving. The effort is felt because of what didn’t happen. What we call voluntary is what we have actively not done.
The inhibition does not necessarily happen at the level of conscious thought. When I don’t pick up the vase instead of the apple, it’s not be- cause I am actively resisting it. It’s because the apple stands in instead. The vase’s presence for perception is being inhibited. In the apple’s standing-in, the vase has actually disappeared, or at least unappeared for perception in lieu of the apple-directed hunger-act of reaching-toward. In autistic expe- rience, not only is there, due to issues with impulse control, much less ten- dency for inhibition, but autistic perception is by its very definition more field-oriented. As a result, field attention is more present and the termini, as I suggested above, are more tuned to their incipient variability. This tends to take movement out of its presuppositional feeling of volition, thereby de- emphasizing the perceived difference between volition and nonvolition, the conscious and the nonconscious. As Donna Williams writes: “When you resonate with an object or surface it is not so much that you have reached out for that object or surface but that it has, somehow, reached into you” (1998: loc. 603). In its effortlessness, autistic perception reaches into the you you are becoming. What isn’t asked often enough is: what else, what other kinds of communication, what other potentials for movement, what other fields of encounter are possible from this uninhibited field of relation?
THE FACILITATION OF FACILITATION