If movement is by nature nonvoluntary, generated to attention by its dance in the between of subjects and objects forming, a new definition of facilita- tion must be invented. The facilitator is not there to prevent the autistic from wallowing in autistic perception. Facilitation is the force of activa- tion in the relation that allows autistic perception to come to expression. Here, relation must be seen as a relationscape, not as a neutral between of subjects and objects in the model of interaction. How the field parses for experience is always connected to how its relations play themselves out.
To place facilitation in the relation means that the facilitator must be- come aware of the more-than of experience informing. It is this more-than that the facilitator-autistic relation will field. Carrying is key here. The fa- cilitator must also become active in the carrying that occurs across fields of difference, from edge to language, from intensity to form. Facilitation is therefore something that the autistic and the facilitator must learn together. Theirs is a sociality for two.
A beautiful example of what facilitation can do is seen in the poetic writings of what Ralph Savarese calls autie-type. Autie-type, as men- tioned above, is the name Savarese gives to the rhythm and metaphor he sees in autistics who use facilitated communication. Sometimes this poet- ics weaves through their writings for years after they have come to typing (Larry Bissonnette is a good example of this), other times, as in Black- man’s musings on the loss of her poetic voice, the autie-type rhythms can become backgrounded. Either way, certain patterns in the writing are pal- pable, and this even across cultures and languages.21
Autie-type, completely composed by the autistic, relishes the relational pull of facilitation: the writing happens in the between, the between not only of autistic and facilitator, but also of autistic perception and language. In this kind of writing, the facilitator may or may not have direct hands-on contact with the autistic. The direct contact is not the issue. Facilitation is in the milieu: it is a virtual carrier of language, but only in the sense that it activates and nurtures the relation. Care for the field in its unfolding is di- rectly felt, it seems to me, in the writing that ensues.
Listen to the following sentences written by autistics:
Emma Zurcher-Long: Decision to sing while thinking about birds with peek-a-boo tail feathers brings happy feelings. ( July 2014)22
Larry Bissonnette: Powerfully pushed by climate change, Hurricane Sandy has lapped up on the shores of Mitt Romney’s campaign and plopped large loads of wet sand on, looking more shallow now, ideas about privatizing lots of, lending helping hand to less privileged, people assistance. (November 2012)
Larry Bissonnette: The plight of more apples freezing in the orchards of Vermont is what I more immediately worry about but I do peer out beyond our borders and see our connection to the powerful forces of political change. I see the changing of old guards to new patterns of compassionately spread laws to protect our environment and freedoms to be looked on equally regardless of our differences. ( January 2013)23
DJ Savarese: yes. dearest sad dad you heard fresh self and freshly re- sponded deserting your fears and just freed sad dear saved me. yes. yes. yes. Yes. (November 2007)24
Autie-type is a rhythm all its own. Ralph Savarese sees this poetic voice as a starting point for creating a bridge between the autistic and the neu- rotypical. He writes:
Poetry might constitute a linguistic meeting point for different neuro- logical types, one that honours both the “unlost instinct” (or pure sen- sory knowing) of autistics and the symbolic proclivities of neurotyp- icals. The sensual splendour of the world, to which classical autistics are so attentive, shows up by analogy in poetry. Patterned syntax and sound, pulsating rhythm, emotional prosody as a function of tone— these things might induce non-literate autistics to grapple with poetry’s semantic content and, thus, functional language in general. In turn, neu- rotypicals might be restored to their sensing bodies, and as a result, bet- ter understand the sensory world of autistics. Each half of the neurolog- ical divide would commit itself to an ethic of neuro-cosmopolitanism. Each would concede the need for repair. (2012: 210)
Ralph Savarese, a poet himself and a committed autism advocate, has worked with emergent autistic poets to assist them in honing this craft, which, while it does seem to come all of its own, deserves the same kind of attention we give to neurotypical writing. “I’ve already seen significant development in my son’s fledgling work,” Savarese writes, speaking of DJ Savarese, a young autistic poet who is now the first nonspeaking student in
creative writing at Oberlin College, “and together we have vowed to perfect our mutual craft. As [Larry Bissonnette] would say, ‘It’s past point of per- sonal hobby’ or, for that matter, unwitting obsession” (2008: 6). Speaking of poetry as a meeting point between those on the spectrum of neurodi- versity, Savarese writes of the necessity of crafting a certain neurocosmo- politanism that might facilitate the carrying of modes of perception across what is too often perceived as an unbridgeable divide. This might in turn create modes of speaking and listening that could weaken neurotypicality as the dominant paradigm of human existence.
In an interview between autistic Tito Mukhopadhyay and Ralph Sava- rese, Mukhopadhyay explains how poetry figures in his writing practice. “I use verse when I get bored of writing a dragging paragraph. I usually do. Sometimes the topic becomes too thick and intense to write. I get nagged by this boring state that the topic holds for me. Because of that, I seek a way out to recharge my senses. A verse makes me free. A verse recharges my senses. And a verse can distract the eyes and ears of a reader. It is easy to read it that way” (Savarese 2010). Poetry, for Mukhopadhyay, is both a way of coming into language and remaining in the world of words, of growing words alongside perception in the making.
Savarese asks Mukhopadhyay: “What can poetry communicate that prose cannot? You’ve spoken of your ‘love for designs’ and ‘repetition’ when writing? Can you speak more about this love? Beyond the fact that rhyme and repetition seem themselves somehow autistic (in a good way), what do they communicate?” (Savarese 2010). This question is key, it seems to me, in the question of facilitation. How does the movement of rhythm, the tone or taste of words, all of these present in poetry, facilitate the pas- sage from autistic perception to language-based communication? Mukho- padhyay responds: “They make me think about a sound pattern. Designs can be visual and designs can be formed in sound. When I write, ‘A rock lay by the stream,’ it becomes less of a design than something like . . . A rock lay waiting / By the stream / Ready to step inside, / So that it could begin / An existence—Of a stepping stone! (Whatever be that meaning.) The words make the rock become more than a thing to ignore” (Savarese 2010).
More than a thing to ignore might also be understood as “more than a thing to inhibit.” For the neurotypical, might this mean that poetic writing is a facilitator in its own right, activating perception in a way that bypasses the habitual inhibition that occurs in the parsing of the event? For there is no question, it seems to me, that poetry, with its foregrounding of rhythm and sonority over a bald attempt at sense-making, acts as facilitator in au-
tistic writing, and perhaps even autistic experience in general: in the same interview with Savarese, Mukhopadhyay mentions that it was William Blake who helped him learn to tie his shoes!25
Savarese continues: “I love the phrase ‘more than a thing to ignore.’ Thinking of my first question, I’m almost tempted to say that the fragments of poetry are prose becoming autistic, if by autistic I mean patterned, mu- sically perseverative. Why shouldn’t the things of this world, which neuro- typicals often blithely pass over, be keenly, even fiercely, observed? Perhaps the medium of poetry best captures with its interruptive force the rapt at- tention of autistic engagement. Is there an ethics of seeing implicit in your answer, an injunction to take note, and if so, does it apply to people with au- tism?” “I cannot speak for other autistic people,” Mukhopadhyay responds. “But with my eyes, I may select a fraction of the environment—say ‘that shadow of a chair’ or ‘that door hinge over there’—and grow my opinions and ideas around it. This creates a defense system for my over-stimulated visual sense organ. (Call it keen observation or any other name.) Maybe poetry happens to grow around these things. Sometimes I write them and other times I discard them because there is ‘too much to write’” (Savarese 2010).
Poetry facilitates an opening onto the as-yet-unparsed. It moves with the as-yet-uninhibited, finding ways to bring to composition the force- of-form. In this way, it does exactly the opposite of chunking—it hinges back to the field, as Mukhopadhyay might say. Certainly, there is always a certain inhibition that happens in the selection that is language, but poetry remains more open to the rhythm, the tone, the color of autistic percep- tion than do most other kinds of written language. If we see poetry, as Sa- varese argues through his concept of neurocosmopolitanism, as the “first facilitator” across the spectrum of neurodiversity, might autie-type be an example of the facilitation of facilitation? For the words come best, despite their arrival just this way, across communities and cultures, in their singu- lar metaphorical, or, better, metamorphical complexity, with Mukhopad- hyay’s mother always a few meters away, with DJ Savarese’s facilitator by his side, sometimes touching his wrist or sharing in the holding of a pencil, with Larry Bissonnette’s facilitator’s hand on his shoulder, with the touch that gives Lucy the sense of a body-dimensionality. The words come best in the relation.
What I am suggesting is that poetry’s inherent capacity to facilitate the creating of bridges between autistic perception and language is multiplied, in autie-type, by a degree of facilitation that explicitly activates the relation
necessary in making the transition from perception to words. This second degree of facilitation carries feeling across modes of expression. It facili- tates the opening in language of affective tonality, making felt, in the words, what I have elsewhere called the prearticulation of language in the making, the beneath of words.
In neurotypically inflected experience, affective tonality is felt in the minor gestures of the environment’s tuning to expression. When affec- tive tonality is most powerful, it becomes difficult to parse experience into words. But a lot of the time, this is not a major issue. Because of the inher- ent capacity for inhibition, if necessary the affective tonality can be back- grounded, its minor gestures ignored. In autistic perception, however, af- fective tonality is dominant, active in every aspect of how perception fields. This means that the act of backgrounding necessary to parse words from feelings is more difficult. It also means that the autistic is more aware of the struggle inherent in the task of making intelligible that which is so alive, teeming with the forces of affect. This is where the facilitation of facilita- tion can make a difference. In the facilitator-autistic relation, the facilitator stands in to modulate the environment so that the affective tonality can co-compose in ways that in turn will facilitate the parsing of experience into language. With this agencement the autistic is capable of fielding the environment in a way that attention can momentarily settle. This happens in the relation, which is why Blackman emphasizes that facilitation is much more than simply physically assisting with a task.
The facilitator must therefore be seen as more than a person. They are carriers, conduits for the modulation of an eventful environment. Through a relationship of trust and understanding, autistic and facilitator work to- gether to tune the complexity of communication—both linguistic and nonlinguistic—toward language in ways that do not erase the complexity of the minor gestures at the heart of field attention. Affect is not cast aside, but is conducted in ways that better align with written communication. Facilitation is possible only if the autistic does not feel judged. He must be secure in his intelligence and trust the facilitator to help him create the con- ditions for communicating his singular way of seeing the world. But even more than that: he must trust the relation’s capacity to create pathways for a composing analogous at least in some regard to his lived experience of autistic perception. In this facilitation of facilitation there emerges the ca- pacity for the environment to come to attention in a way that facilitates the invention of new modes of expression.
In the most troubled years of fc, when facilitators were accused of writ- ing in the autistics’ stead, the focus tended to be restricted to method.26 Recall how Blackman, writing about her path to eventually composing on the keyboard without hands-on facilitation, expresses with frustration that over the years people seem to have been more interested in how she typed than in what she typed. She writes: “Most of the next fifteen years [from the onset of typing with facilitation] were really a continual path to typing with minimal physical contact, not because I personally thought it impor- tant but because it was essential if I was to establish my own achievement in the eyes of others” (2013: 106). Whitehead’s words ring loud: “Some of the major disasters of mankind have been produced by the narrowness of men with a good methodology” (1929: 12). Method is anathema to autistic per- ception. It is also allergic to relation, for it relies on the ability to stand out- side the event and judge it from without. No method will ever embrace the facilitation of facilitation. The agencements of attention in its fielding, the contributions of minor gestures, the metamorphical playfulness of poetic writing: these will be resisted by method’s desire to orient experience ac- cording to the false problems of questions already posed. Against method! screams autie-type, and we should heed this call.
This is a political call. The identity politics of neurotypicality are too dominant and too pervasive for autistics to fight alone. Carrying the feel- ing is not an individual practice. It is collective at its very core. Carrying the feeling is a relational movement, relational in its capacity to make felt the intercurrent, as James might say, of the in-act and the act. Here, where life is not directed by inhibition, and modes of expression entangle the conscious and the nonconscious, where the nonvoluntary finds its poetic voice, new ways of living become imaginable. What if parsing weren’t foregrounded as the method for successful living? What if the nonvoluntary weren’t such a threat? What if freedom were more widely understood as the creative force of the in-act? What if the minor gesture, in its poetic force, were not only attended to, but composed with? What else would we be capable of thinking-feeling?
Donna Williams writes:
I was deeply mesmerized with all things aesthetic and sensory from at least 6 months of age. Being meaning deaf, I saw musically. Being face blind, I was attuned to movement patterns. Being object blind and con- text blind, I’d tap everything to make noise, to hear its “voice,” flick it to feel its movement, turn it to experience how it caught light, toss and
drop and shred and snap and sprinkle grass, sand, twigs, leaves. I’d lick and run my hands and face over surfaces, wrap myself into fabrics. I’d align myself with symmetry and lines, mold myself into forms to feel their shape as them, stare at colors and lights and shapes trying to be- come one with them.27
Facilitation aligns. Recall the proposition from chapter 5 that movement is made possible by the interrelation between the intervals of movement- moving and the collective capacity to align to them, in the event. Note that what facilitates the coming-to-perception in Williams’s account above is exactly the same kind of aligning to the interval, an aligning that involves the placing-into-relation not of the objects, but of what they can do, how they sound, how they feel, what they taste like. Facilitation aligns to the field of relation, to its tastes, its feelings, its immanent shapings, and it car- ries this differential potential across the productive abyss of nonconscious and conscious experience. The alignment to a mobile environment in the making: this is facilitation. Let this be our challenge: to collectively create techniques to carry further the alignment to difference alive in autistic per- ception.