In his work on the alignment of depression and capital in neoliberal times, Bifo (Franco Berardi) uses the figure of Guattari—with whom he collabo- rated when he was also a committed activist—to explore the relationship between depression and the act. Focusing on Guattari’s “winter years,” Bifo wonders how depression affected Guattari’s work as a philosopher and ac- tivist. Bifo suggests that Guattari’s depression not only left him paralyzed in the face of life, but put him in a situation where he gave himself to causes that he didn’t really believe in. Depression, it seems, not only affected Guat- tari’s capacity to be in the act, it transformed his ability to direct his ener- gies in ways that would best move his practice forward. This inability to demonstrate volition with respect to what was most important to him— activism, Bifo argues, is in part tied to Guattari’s own reluctance to discuss the relationship between activism and depression. Bifo explains:
I sensed and was convinced that in the final decade of his life, Guattari had at several points undertaken a political commitment in which he did not deeply believe, that is, seeming to him to be his duty to “hold on,” that he needed to get past this rather difficult, regressive period, etc. And I perceived a kind of exhaustion in his will to maintain a posi- tion. So in this phase of the Guattarian itinerary, what seemed to me to be missing . . . is a reflection about depression. While one would need
to enter more fully into this concept, depression basically is a disinvest- ment of libidinal energies in facing the future, in facing the world. Natu- rally it’s a question of a pathology, but not only that. Or rather, in short, the pathology is not something to be undervalued. (Berardi 2008: 158)
Bifo, in a move that troubles me, then turns to Guattari’s writings to explore the omission of depression. In what seems to me a classic psycho- analytic gesture, Bifo analyzes Guattari’s work to see how or why depres- sion was excluded. Turning to Deleuze and Guattari’s writing on desire in Anti-Oedipus, he writes: “Félix did not pay attention to depression, neither as a philosopher, nor as a psychoanalyst. And we can easily understand why. The methodology [démarche] of the Anti-Oedipus is not easy to rec- oncile with the possibility of delving into depression. Depression is not just a condition among others, in which a machinic unconscious is assembled, made of existential and chaosmotic fragments proceeding from anywhere to everywhere else. The Anti-Oedipus does not know depression; it contin- uously overcomes, leaping with psychedelic energy over any slowing down and any darkness” (Berardi 2008: 11). Personalizing Guattari, and making the dangerous assumption that writing is an act that should somehow mir- ror the writer, Bifo continues his analysis: “Félix knew this, I am sure, but he never said as much, not even to himself, and this is why he went to all these meetings with people who didn’t appeal to him, talking about things that distracted him and making lists of deadlines and appointments. And then he would run off, adjusting his glasses to consult his overflowing daily planner. And here again is the root of depression, in this impotence of political will that we haven’t had the courage to admit” (Berardi 2008: 13, translation modified).
Using his friendship with Guattari as a guarantor (basing his account of Guattari’s mental state on what went on between them as friends), Bifo undertakes a specious project, specious because based on a proposition that uses the personal as the central figure instead of acknowledging, at the very outset, Guattari’s lifelong investment in the prepersonal and the group subject. In so doing, Bifo backgrounds the operational nature of Guattari’s writing, both alone and with Deleuze. When Bifo suggests, for instance, that their writing on the machinic unconscious is only about “a continuous overcoming,” that their writing refuses “any slowing down and any dark- ness” he misinterprets, it seems to me, the machinations of desire as out- lined in Anti-Oedipus. Anti-Oedipus is not an account of light over darkness, but one of the in-act. The in-act is not positive or negative: it is productive.
This is Deleuze and Guattari’s definition of the desiring machine. Depres- sion is not missing from Anti-Oedipus—the complexity of neurodiversity is everywhere present in the account of what schizoanalysis can do. What’s absent is a separating out of depression from neurodiversity as a whole. Anti-Oedipus foregrounds transversal operations that propose techniques for creating desiring machines that are capable of cutting through existing systems to create new modes of existence. Psychoanalysis is one of the sys- tems Anti-Oedipus’s desiring machines cuts through. Anti-Oedipus works against any account that would restratify a neurotypical identity politics or any normative identity structure. For theirs is an exploration, avant la lettre, of what neurodiversity can do, not of its failings. To suggest other- wise would be to discredit the force of schizoanalysis so central to Guat- tari’s practice.
Guattari would resist, it seems to me, any normative account of depres- sion that would situate it in the agency-volition-intentionality triad. When Bifo speaks of Guattari’s inability to use his time well, he provides exactly this kind of normative account of depression: he proposes that Guattari demonstrates a lack of volition, suggesting that in the best-case scenario, Guattari would have the kind of will, the kind of agency, that would bet- ter direct his decision to align himself to projects “that matter.” Guattari would also be suspicious of an account of depression that kept it within the bounds of the subject. He would be more likely to align himself, it seems to me, to the following account of depression, which, unlike Bifo’s analysis, refuses to situate depression solely in the individual, making it a collective problem for which a group-subject must be invented. This is a story nar- rated by Andrew Solomon, who has written widely about his struggle with depression. In this story, Solomon recalls a trip to Senegal where he expe- rienced a ritual for depression called ndeup.
The ndeup is a ritual practice that involves the careful crafting of tech- niques to create a group-subject. As with all rituals, certain precise proce- dures have to be followed. Solomon explains: “The first thing we had was a shopping list. We had to buy seven yards of African fabric. We had to get a calabash, which was a large bowl fashioned from a gourd. We had to get three kilos of millet. We had to get sugar and kola beans. And then we had to get two live cockerels, two roosters, and a ram.” These effects were pur- chased at the market, except the ram, which was bought by the side of the road. Then Solomon headed to what would become a full-day ritual. By early afternoon, the ritual really got going.
And the sound of drumming began—the drumming I had been hop- ing for. And so there was all of this drumming, and it was very exciting. And we went to the central square of the village, where there was a small makeshift wedding bed that I had to get into with the ram. I had been told it would be very, very bad luck if the ram escaped, and that I had to hold on to him, and that the reason we had to be in this wedding bed was that all my depression and all my problems were caused by the fact that I had spirits. In Senegal you have spirits all over you, the way here you have microbes. Some are good for you. Some are bad for you. Some are neutral. My bad spirits were extremely jealous of my real-life sexual partners, and we had to mollify the anger of the spirits. . . .
The entire village had taken the day off from their work in the fields, and they were dancing around us in concentric circles. And as they danced, they were throwing blankets and sheets of cloth over us, and so we were gradually being buried. It was unbelievably hot, and it was completely stifling. And there was the sound of these stamping feet as everyone danced around us, and then these drums, which were getting louder and louder and more and more ecstatic. And I was just about at the point at which I thought I was going to faint or pass out. At that key moment suddenly all of the cloths were pulled off. I was yanked to my feet. The loincloth that was all I was wearing was pulled from me. The poor old ram’s throat was slit, as were the throats of the two cockerels. And I was covered in the blood of the freshly slaughtered ram and cock- erels.
After a short break, the ritual continued. Solomon was told to place his hands by his side and to stand very straight and erect. They proceeded to tie him up with the intestines of the ram.
In the meanwhile [the ram’s] body was hanging from a nearby tree, and someone was doing some butchering of it, and they took various little bits of it out. And then I had to kind of shuffle over . . . and take these little pieces of the ram and dig holes, and put the pieces of the ram in the holes.
And I had to say something. And what I had to say was actually in- credibly, strangely touching in the middle of this weird experience. I had to say, “Spirits, leave me alone to complete the business of my life and know that I will never forget you.” And I thought, What a kind thing to say to the evil spirits you’re exorcising: “I’ll never forget you.” And I haven’t.
Solomon continued to speak this mantra. He was then given a package of the millet with which his body had earlier been rubbed and told that he should sleep with it under his pillow that night. He was also instructed to bring it to a beggar “who had good hearing and no deformities” the fol- lowing morning. Once the millet had exchanged hands, he was told “that would be the end of my troubles.”
And then the women all filled their mouths with water and began spit- ting water all over me—it was a surround-shower effect—rinsing the blood away from me. It gradually came off, and when I was clean, they gave me back my jeans. And everyone danced, and they barbecued the ram, and we had this dinner. And I felt so up. I felt so up!
Solomon’s participation in the ritual places us in a completely different relation to depression’s working than does Bifo’s account. A Rwandan who encounters Solomon several years later articulates this difference suc- cinctly. After hearing of Solomon’s experience in Senegal, this man says:
You know, we had a lot of trouble with Western mental health workers who came here immediately after the genocide, and we had to ask some of them to leave.
[The problem was that] their practice did not involve being outside in the sun, like you’re describing, which is, after all, where you begin to feel better. There was no music or drumming to get your blood flow- ing again when you’re depressed, and you’re low, and you need to have your blood flowing. There was no sense that everyone had taken the day off so that the entire community could come together to try to lift you up and bring you back to joy. There was no acknowledgment that the depression is something invasive and external that could actually be cast out of you again. Instead, they would take people one at a time into these dingy little rooms and have them sit around for an hour or so and talk about bad things that had happened to them. We had to get them to leave the country.1
This is the key detail Bifo’s analysis of Guattari’s winter years misses: that all of Guattari’s theory and practice emerges from the necessity to bring out the collective resonance of the event, to see illness not as a personal problem to be analyzed outside of the field of relation, but as an event, an ecology, that necessitates the kind of minor gestures that populate the ritual described above, minor gestures that tune the event to its more-than. As outlined so comprehensively in Anti-Oedipus, the force of schizoanaly-
sis is that it creates the conditions for opening the event to its productive schism rather than reducing it, as psychoanalysis would do, to a regressive account of a preconstituted past. Time, in schizoanalysis, is of the event, in the group-subject of its co-composition. Any technique created in the name of schizoanalysis needs to be able to craft event-time, to move the event to an operative more-than that persuasively cleaves it with the in- stauration Souriau argues is at the heart of the creation of new modes of existence.
In his years of practice at La Borde, Guattari was everywhere involved in the creation of such techniques that activate the ecological core of experi- ence’s more-than. In his writing, where chaosmosis, as Pelbart suggests, is probably the strongest description of the force of petrification and spark, Guattari aligned himself again and again not with pathologizing accounts of neurodiversity, but with the kinds of rituals described above, rituals that involve bringing out the community, rituals that activate the minor gesture, rituals that transform the very ground of experience.