Bifo’s argument, over the last decade, is that neoliberalism has left the body disempowered, our collective nervous system besieged by the forces of a capitalist takeover. We can, and indeed, we must no longer act. As outlined by Gary Genosko and Nicholas Thoburn in their introduction to Bifo’s After the Future, Bifo argues that “activism is the narcissistic response of the subject to the infinite and invasive power of capital, a response that can only leave the activist frustrated, humiliated and depressed” (Genosko and Thoburn in Berardi 2011: 7). Activism, Bifo suggests, is a desperate at- tempt to ward off depression. “But it’s doomed to fail and, worse, to con- vert political innovation and sociality into its opposite, to ‘replace desire with duty’” (2011: 7–8).
Bifo sees the current landscape of depression as “a product of the ‘panic’ induced by the sensory overload of digital capitalism, a condition of with- drawal, a disinvestment of energy from the competitive and narcissistic structures of the enterprise. And it’s also a result of the loss of political composition and antagonism” (Genosko and Thoburn in Berardi 2011: 8). Depression is the collective effect of a social tendency, as “born out of the dispersion of the community’s immediacy. . . . When the prolifer- ating power is lost, the social becomes the place of depression” (Berardi 2008: 13). In the past, autonomous and desiring politics were actively co-
composing, whereas now, in neoliberal times, such proliferating power is lost, and the act—activism—is incapable of resurrecting it. It’s difficult not to see Nietzsche’s last men rearing their heads in this dark account that has so completely lost the élan of the in-act. “The earth has become small, and on it hops the Last Man, who makes everything small. His spe- cies is ineradicable as the flea; the Last Man lives longest” (1954: 5). This is certainly not Bifo’s hope, nor is it what moves his writing, but I wonder whether the account of depression he proposes doesn’t end up cementing a reactive nihilism, a cynicism that tends, despite its position “against,” to strengthen the status quo. Being out of act, out of service—isn’t that the very posture of ressentiment?2
Despite my respect for Bifo as an activist and thinker, I hope to chal- lenge his account of depression, particularly his account of the relationship between depression and activism. I will do so by paying close attention to the story told by Pelbart of the chaosmosis at the heart of the “not-me” which is inhabited at once by petrification and spark. Taking the act not simply as that which is in the service of the neoliberal economy, but more broadly as the force of the event through which minor gestures course, and taking depression out of the context of an individual sadness, I want to ex- plore the operative passage between petrification and spark.
In doing so, I do not want to discredit the fact that there is extensive tur- moil in the face of neoliberalism’s excessive takeover of what a body can do. There is no question that these are troubled times. Nor do I want to suggest that depression isn’t terrible. It is. What I want to do, always with the ndeup ritual in mind—with its belief that depression carries a more-than that needs to be attended to in its differential force; with its acknowledgment that it is only collectively that new modes of existence can be invented—is propose that depression operates in event-time, not outside the event in a passive re- lationship to the what was. If we start here, the inquiry leads somewhere pro- foundly different than the path Bifo outlines. Against Bifo’s account of the neoliberal takeover of the act, this different path leads us toward a rethinking of the in-act, as I’ve attempted to do throughout, a rethinking that leads to a neurodiverse exploration of the what else at the heart of experience.
In my own struggle with depression, it has become clear to me that what we call depression is nothing if not plural: it expresses itself in an infinity of ways from sadness to hunger, from loss to anguish and anxiety, from a fre- netically quiet inner panic to a full-fledged panic attack, from the stillness of a body incapable of moving to an agitated body. For some, all of these
tendencies are present, which leads depression to be less about a state that could properly be described than a terrible decalibration that makes it im- possible to compose with the world: everything feels out of sync. This is the case for me: the experience is one of not being able to connect to the movements that surround me, not being able to match their rhythms. The best description of this is a sense of misalignment with time. The world moves too quickly or too slowly in ways that are difficult to connect to. It is as though there were multiple speeds and slownesses in continuous un- alignable disjunction. Medicated, and with many years of various kinds of treatments, the sense I have is that it has become easier to align and that the field of relation now stabilizes enough to allow a co-composition across worldings. I can participate. But the one who participates is not a person- alized “I.” It is a schizo-I, like Deleuze’s account of “Pierre” and “Félix,” a schizo anti-I in the sense that there is no absolute integration, but instead an emergent potential for co-composition across experiential time both quick and slow. Living with depression, and acknowledging the necessity for facilitation in its many relational guises, is an art of participation, and what has emerged through this art of participation is a belief in the world as a mobile site to which alignments are possible.
These alignments are not given. They must be crafted. Opening the way for a co-composition that potentially aligns itself to times in the making re- quires, I believe, a rethinking of the act of alignment itself. It requires what Guattari would call a group-subjectivity, an account of a collective that ex- ceeds the personal. To connect with this collectivity in the making requires techniques for inventing modes of encounter not simply with the human but in the wider ecology of worlds in their unfolding. For the collective as a mode of existence in its own right is not the multiplication of individuals. It is the way the force of a becoming attunes to a transindividuation that is more-than. To become-collective is to align to a chaosmosis in a way that prolongs the capacity of one body to act.
This is not to underestimate the pain, difficulty, even horror of depres- sion, nor to underplay how complex misalignments make us feel our si- lence on the one hand, or our anxiety on the other as signs of our decalibra- tion with the world. Nor is it to argue that drugs against depression in its widest definition should be handed out as liberally as they are. It is simply to inquire, across my own experience, and through the moving reading of Peter Pál Pelbart’s account of Guattari’s petrification, how else we can fa- cilitate emergent collectivities without turning to the neurotypical habit of
pathologizing difference, or, in the case of depression, of too quickly align- ing the nonvolitional to passivity.