Neurodiversity is about accepting that there is no normal human brain, that being different is okay, and about working together to discover how we all can participate to the best of our abilities in our lives. We are op- timistic that with the proper supports and accommodations, positive attitudes, acceptance, inclusion, and encouragement, that every (autis- tic) person is able to communicate, interact, and contribute to society while meeting individual needs and respecting one’s sense of self and personal rights.3
It is very common for autistics to suffer from the disabling anxiety that is on the spectrum of what is treated as depression. It is also very often as- serted by autistics that they have a strange sense of time: “Time percep- tion in autism spectrum disorder is a part of the complexity of the con- dition. Many people with autism experience fragmented or delayed time perception, which can present challenges to social interaction and learn- ing.”4 What I want to do by aligning the autistic’s perception of time to the perception of time in the wide array of depressive disorders is not to sug- gest that we are all autistic, or that all autistics are depressed, but to return to neurodiversity to think about the complexity of experience. In doing so, I want to turn once more to the concept of autistic perception to explore how depression—as the experience of time’s differential—is itself on the continuum of autistic perception. This, I hope, will open the way for an alignment between autistic perception and schizoanalysis.
Autistic perception, as I have described throughout, is a direct experi- ence of relation, a worlding that makes felt the edging into itself of experi- ence. This makes it difficult for autistics to have a strong sense, at any given moment, of a time separated out from the event-time of their perception. Metric time, time counted, is often difficult to get a sense of. Of course autistic perception of time varies as much as autistics themselves do, but there are some salient characteristics. For instance, those on the spectrum “experience a delay in how they process certain stimuli, including time. It can sometimes be hard for them to comprehend that hours have passed. For example, a person with autism who has echolalia may hear a phrase in the morning and repeat the phrase hours later out of context.” “Anecdotal
reports suggest that individuals with autism have trouble gauging how much time has passed, and parsing the order of events.”5 Speaking of her autistic son with adhd (and wondering where the two conditions meet), Emily Willingham similarly emphasizes a strange sense of time: “One area of overlap is their sense (or lack thereof) of time and timing. They both show delays in responding to spoken questions or requests. When their peers learned to tell time in elementary school, they were completely at sea, unable to instinctively comprehend the passage of time. Even now, in their adolescence, the question ‘What day is it?’ is frequent, as is ‘What are we having for lunch?’ within an hour of having had lunch.”6
Within depression, a similar sense of the untimely is at work. Steve Con- nor writes: “People with severe depression have a disrupted ‘biological clock’ that makes it seem as if they are living in a diff ent time zone to the rest of the healthy population living alongside them, a study has found.”7 Personal accounts support this research: “When I am depressed I feel like time goes slowly, yet at the same time I feel like I—or anyone else—has hardly any time to live at all. It feels as if time is running out.”8 “Yes, days go past slower and more boring feeling like everything’s going to drag on. On the other hand I can feel like life going too fast and the years are fl ing by and start gett g depressed thinking not long to live now etc.”9 “You cannot remember a time when you felt better, at least not clearly; and you certainly cannot imagine a future time when you will feel better. Being upset, even profoundly upset, is a temporal experience, while depression is atemporal” (Solomon 2001: 55).
If autistic perception is the direct perception of experience in-forming, it is also, as I suggested above, a direct perception of time, but not metric or measured time. It is the direct experience of the time of the event. Event- time is experiential time, time felt rather than abstracted. It is the time of the oinking in Pelbart’s story. It is the moment in its alignment to itself, to its enfolding. It is not time in the sense of a pastness that can be recorded on the present. It is the now felt in its entirety, in its untimely infinity. And so it passes too slowly, or it moves too fast, oscillating in a time always of its own uneasy making.