When experience resists external organization according to a metrics of time, the linearity of language’s enunciation is invariably affected. The ex- perience is that of words blurring, of the impossibility of composing a thought that will survive articulation. As I discussed in the last chapter in
relation to autie-type, for the autistic, especially one on the classical end of the spectrum, where motricity is affected such that vocal cords cannot be properly located to permit speech, or where impulse control makes it difficult to direct speech toward what the autistic wants to say, language comes slowly, finger by finger, on the keyboard. But it also comes slowly experientially, moving around images that are closer to metaphors (meta- morphoses) than direct statements. As autistic Larry Bissonnette writes: “Typing is like letting your finger hit keys with accuracy. Leniency on that is not tolerated. Am easily language impaired. Artmaking is like alliance people develop with their muscles after deep massage. You can move freely without effort” (in Savarese 2012: 184).
Shifting in and out of autistic perception, language comes in fits and starts, in a time all its own. Watching Chammi communicating in the film Wretches and Jabberers (dir. Geraldine Wurzburg, 2010), a film that fol- lows two autistics, Tracy Threscher and Larry Bissonnette, in their trav- els to meet autistics in India, Japan, and Finland, we see a familiar scene: Chammi types, one letter at a time, while his mother facilitates not only by touching him but also, as is often necessary with facilitated communi- cation, by vocally encouraging him to continue when he becomes anxious. One sentence is typed. And then Chammi pushes the chair away, runs into the next room, waves his fingers in front of his face, vocalizes. For someone unfamiliar with autism, it would seem he has completely lost interest in the conversation. But soon he returns to his chair, where, out of the frenzy of the movement, another sentence is typed. When asked about why he needs to move around like this, Chammi types: “Killingly hard to figure out, the pattern of movement I need to type my thoughts.”
Movement makes time, makes time felt. It activates the field in its emer- gence, making felt how spacetime composes with the time of the body, in the bodying, and, in this case, with the time of language. But let us not for- get that the time of the body is doubled, petrification and spark, on a spec- trum that is precarious at both ends. As I did elsewhere, I’d like to think of the time of the body in the moving as the shape of enthusiasm.10 Think the shape of enthusiasm not as a personalized body that is enthusiastic, but as the experience of bodying that shapes the event and is shaped by it.
The shape of enthusiasm is itself a spectrum that swings in an oscilla- tion that moves from the potential energy or the energy-in-waiting of pet- rification, to the expressive, potentialized energy of the spark. The shape of enthusiasm gestures toward the more-than in the event at both ends of the spectrum, foregrounding how the in-act is operational both in its ini-
tial activation and in its coming-to-be as this or that. This is an enthusiasm, a chaosmosis, not with life already engendered, but in the very act of en- gendering. At the petrified limit, an enthusiasm held in abeyance, absolute movement, energized potential. At the exuberant limit, an enthusiasm fully expressive, in the moving.
Chammi’s frenetic movement between sentences foregrounds a body- ing that takes the shape of enthusiasm, a bodying here attuned to and in excess of, the articulation of words. This is shaping that defies description, at once anguished and exuberant, frenzied and ineffable. Movement here is itself expressibility, not a deviation from language, but its extension, in co-composition.
Amelia Baggs writes of this experience of the movement of thought in terms of patterns. Through a focus on body language, she proposes that we rethink the neurotypical stance of placing linguistic articulation as primary in the act of communication. For her, the shape of enthusiasm is always before and between language.
There are entire groups of autistic people out there who communicate with each other using our own unique forms of body language that are different from nonautistic body language, different from other autis- tic people’s body language, specific to ourselves, specific to each other. Who communicate best reading each others’ writing, looking for the patterns that exist between the words, rather than inside the words themselves. Who communicate best by exchanging objects, by arrang- ing objects and other things around ourselves in ways that each other can read easier than we can read any form of words. Who share the most intimate forms of communication, outside of words, outside of anything that can be described easily, in between everything, seeing each other to the core of our awareness. Who see layers upon layers of meaning out- side of any form of words.11
Baggs also speaks of feeling patterns: “But I can see the patterns of move- ment in other people, including cats, whether or not I see them well in the usual forms of visual perception. And those patterns of movement tell me more than any word ever could.”12 These feeling patterns are felt expres- sions of a language in the making that has not yet expressed itself in words, a language closer to Bissonette’s statement above regarding painting: “Art- making is like alliance people develop with their muscles after deep mas- sage. You can move freely without effort.” This is nonverbal communica- tion, but it is also more than that. It is a shape of enthusiasm in the sense
that it creates a bodying, a feeling of experience in the moving that invents its own time and takes that time, operating mostly at the nonconscious level. Baggs emphasizes this when she says that “forms of nonverbal com- munication I understand best are unintentional, in fact. That’s one reason tests using actors don’t work on me. I know an autistic woman who failed a test of nonverbal communication because it used actors and she kept de- scribing their real feelings instead of their acted ones.”13
Patterns emerge, and in their emergence they create new kinds of expression in the making, new shapes of enthusiasm in the bodying. As Chammi’s coming-to-words through movement makes clear, language is in the moving. Language moves in the shape of an enthusiasm that lingers precariously at once on the side of anxiety, where there is always worry that communication will prove impossible, and on the side of a kind of over- powering Spinozist joy that undoes language of any pretense of linear rep- resentation, redefining what communication can be. In a post titled “The Obsessive Joy of Autism” Julia Bascom writes:
One of the things about autism is that a lot of things can make you ter- ribly unhappy while barely affecting others. A lot of things are harder.
But some things? Some things are so much easier. Sometimes being autistic means that you get to be incredibly happy. And then you get to flap. You get to perseverate. You get to have just about the coolest obses- sions. . . .
It’s that the experience is so rich. It’s textured, vibrant, and layered. It exudes joy. It is a hug machine for my brain. It makes my heart pump faster and my mouth twitch back into a smile every few minutes. I feel like I’m sparkling. Every inch of me is totally engaged in and powered up by the obsession. Things are clear.
It is beautiful. It is perfect.
Being autistic, to me, means a lot of different things, but one of the best things is that I can be so happy, so enraptured about things no one else understands and so wrapped up in my own joy that, not only does it not matter that no one else shares it, but it can become contagious.
This is the part about autism I can never explain. This is the part I never want to lose. Without this part autism is not worth having.14
The words just can’t do it on their own: the feeling, the carrying feeling, is so excessive, the quality of its shaping too exuberant to be formulated. Hence the rhythm of autie-type, its force of the metaphorical, a mobility that dances before it signifies.
Depression in its alignment to anxiety petrified is not without vitality affect. Nor is it without movement. It is as uncontainable as the spark of its opposite. But its quality is different, and with this difference come dif- ferent effects. For its shape is always closing in on itself. Direct percep- tion of movement-moving is hampered. It’s like walking in molasses. If the shape of enthusiasm is the tremulous field of expression itself, its exuber- ance, depression is the field’s calcification at the limit where expressibility is closest to foundering, especially when called on to order itself into a lin- guistic articulation. There is simply nothing to say. But there is something to oink. Within the register of uneasy communication, the opportunity to body, to sound, to express in a collective voicing is nonetheless available, and it is this that Pelbart hears that afternoon at La Borde, and it is also this, I believe, that we often hear in the words that align to autistic percep- tion. For the spectrum that precariously balances between petrification and spark is extraordinarily mobile in its tending to one or the other extreme, and perhaps especially so in autistic conversations where each word, each letter typed, is a reactivation that must relocate the otherwise dislocated, multiplying body.
Citing Anne Donnellan, Ralph Savarese writes about the challenge autistics experience in “staging the customary relation of the senses and body parts, which must subtly cooperate to produce the seamless integrity of neurotypical functioning. The tricks that autistics employ to compen- sate—touching something to make sight useable, for example—reveal the necessary relation: there are no discrete faculties. As the drive to pattern links distinct entities through a process of visual or auditory comparison, the equivalent shows up in language through the practice of touch-based typing. Touch literally coordinates thought, and not just any kind of thought: rather, sensuous, relational thought” (Savarese 2012: 188). Lan- guage comes relationally and remains relational: the process of facilitated communication, as suggested in the last chapter, only emphasizes what is everywhere the case: to act is never to act alone. Facilitation takes many guises. For those whose body refuses to organize itself, it acts as an organiz- ing force, it “coordinates thought, and not just any kind of thought: rather, sensuous, relational thought.” For there is nothing more frustrating, I’m certain, than when “ladle of doing language meaningfully is lost in the soup of disabled map of autism.” Facilitation opens this “disabled map of au- tism,” thanks to a “potholder of touch” (Bissonnette in Savarese 2012: 189). And in the mix of the thinking-feeling-become-writing, the poetic voice of autie-type emerges, caught, always, between petrification and the spark.
SCHIZOANALYSIS