There’s something about writing books that is out of time. As though the writing only really knows what it’s after once it has begun to make its way into the world. For me, thinking too has always had this quality: think- ing thickens in its encounter with the futurity that orients it. This futurity in thinking’s presentness is part of what keeps thinking lithe: thinking is always out of sync with itself.
The best kind of encounter with thinking’s outside is the kind that deeply listens to what writing is trying to do, almost thinking beyond what the author is capable of thinking, then returning that thinking, almost beyond what the reader can think, to the author. In this gesture of encoun- ter, no one is trying to convince anyone: thought is thinking collectively at its limit.
Going through the review process for The Minor Gesture, I had the luck of encountering thinking at the limit. In an affirmative gesture—what I call “affirmation without credit” in the postscript—the reviewers took time to think-with the text in a gesture of writing-with, returning The Minor Ges- ture to me with the richness of an engagement that was capable of opening my thinking beyond where I thought it could go. In this return, I received not a simple account of how writing performs knowledge, but something much more important: an engagement with how thinking does its work, in the writing.
What struck me, in reading these reviews (can these still be called re- views?), was how fragile this gesture of writing-with made me feel. The fragility, I think, has to do with writing pushed to a limit where it is truly
in contact with the tremulousness of thinking in the act. Bringing thought into contact with its limit this way is a minor gesture. It is a minor gesture in that it activates a tendency already in germ and emboldens it toward an altering of what that tendency can do. A thought less concerned with the certainty of what it knows is more open to the minor in thinking, more open to the force of the as-yet-unformed coursing through it. This minor tendency values the force of form, not just the form knowledge takes.
The Minor Gesture engages directly with this tension between knowl- edge and value. What else could be at stake in the encounter if it weren’t organized around the certainty of knowing? What might become thinkable if knowledge weren’t so tied to an account of subject-driven agency? And, what else might value look like if it weren’t framed by judgment?
A minor gesture that activates the collectivity at the heart of thought effects change. It affects not only what the text can become: it alters to the core what thinking can do. It gives value to the processual uncertainty of thought as yet unformed, and gives that thought the space to develop col- lectively.
For their elegant engagement with collective thinking in the act, I thank these reviewers by name: Greg Seigworth and Fred Moten. Thank you for inviting me to think beyond the limit of what seemed thinkable, and for thinking there with me.
I also thank the SenseLab, with whom the thinking never stops, whether we are making or moving or talking or writing. My life is changed, contin- uously, by the thinking that moves us.
And, as always: thank you to Brian Massumi. Even when we’re not writ- ing together I hear the speculative force of our collective thinking in my words. You have taught me that we never write alone.