The schism between expression and enunciation, the intense passage between petrification and spark, the shape of enthusiasm that bodies, these are schizoanalytic tendencies. Or, to put it differently, the schizoanalytic, the “non-I” of the double which expresses itself as the schizo-flux in Anti- Oedipus, can be felt in the bodying-forth that composes at the edges of language where the movement of thought is most active. Schizoanalysis composes with autistic perception.
Autistic perception, as I have suggested before, emphasizes a modality of perception shared by all, but felt directly by so-called neurotypicals only under certain conditions. Depression is one of those conditions. Exuber- ance is another. In these conditions, what is felt is the precarious edge of existence where experience is under transformation, where the field of ex- pression still resonates with its own becoming. Falling in love is an example of an event where the shape of enthusiasm overtakes what is thought of as the boundedness of the subject to foreground the opening the field of re- lation provokes. The deep silence of depression, where the world seems to be infolding, or the inner anguish of anxiety, where speeds and slownesses seem to be out of sync with the world at large: these are also events where the relational field vibrates and the sense of a preconstituted self falls away. This state of vibratory composition, where self and other are not yet, and where the categorical does not take precedence, is very much what Deleuze and Guattari describe as the eventful field of potential. This field of potential is not embodied by the personalized schizophrenic. As they repeat throughout Anti-Oedipus, their interest is not in this or that schizo- phrenic—“someone asked us if we had ever seen a schizophrenic, no, no, we have never seen one”—but of a schizoid pole in the social field. Over and over, they emphasize that schizoanalysis is not about the production of a schizophrenic, but about the schizophrenic process (Deleuze and Guat- tari 1983: 380). Of course, Guattari worked daily with schizophrenics, but not with “the” schizophrenic, not with schizophrenia as a general idea. In- deed, all of the therapeutic techniques at La Borde emphasized the singu- larity of a given therapeutic event: there was no generalized therapeutic matrix. This is what Deleuze and Guattari emphasize throughout Anti- Oedipus: schizoanalysis reinvents itself through each of its desiring opera-
tions. It cannot be contained or described: it is always in the act.
This attention to the difference between the schizoid pole and the pro- duction of the schizophrenic as an individual is similar to the distinction
I make between autism as a medical category and autistic perception. I am not making a value judgment on autism when I describe autistic per- ception, nor am I suggesting that all of autism can be subsumed under its mantle. Rather, I am drawing attention to a perceptual tendency that seems to be extremely pronounced within the autistic community, and also pres- ent in each of us who figure elsewhere on the spectrum of neurodiversity. This perceptual tendency reminds us that there is no preconstituted body that stands outside the act of perception, and that objects and subjects are eventful emergences of a relational field in emergence.
Schizoanalysis, as Guattari emphasizes in an interview after the publi- cation of Anti-Oedipus, “introduces into analytic research a dimension of finitude, of singularity, of existential delimitation, of precariousness in re- lation to time and values” (in Genosko 1996: 136). Unlike psychoanalysis, it does not seek to “discover” the unconscious, but asks it instead to “pro- duce its own lines of singularity, its own cartography, in fact, its own exis- tence” (1996: 137). And it does so not through the individual, but through the prepersonal force of the group-subject, a collectivity through which experience becomes multiple. To bring to it the language of autistic per- ception is to emphasize how the schizoanalytic process foregrounds the becoming-multiple, in an emergent ecology, of the shape of enthusiasm. Not this body, this experience, this identity, but a collective field-effect of relationscapes that map themselves out according to emergent cartogra- phies that exceed this or that subject or object. Experience makes itself felt as multiple, and it is out of this multiplicity that an account of its effects can be expressed. Like the conversation with the pigs, where the force of the oinking exceeds one person’s voice, or even one person’s idea of what constitutes a conversation, the becoming-multiple of experience through the group-subject allows a fractured, complex, and expressive field of enun- ciation to emerge. This field resists interpretation: it cannot be explained away. In Guattari’s words: “The term ‘collective’ should be understood here in the sense of a multiplicity that develops beyond the individual, on the side of the socius, as well as on this side (so to speak) of the person, that is, on the side of pre-verbal intensities that arise more from a logic of the affects than from a well-circumscribed, comprehensive logic” (in Genosko 1996: 196).
Schizoanalysis is a practice that reorients itself continuously around the intuition of a problem, in the Bergsonian sense. Its mantra is “What can a body do?” “We cannot, we must not attempt to describe the schizophrenic object without relating it to the process of production” (Deleuze and Guat-
tari 1983: 6). Always linked to desire (also in the mode of production), schizoanalysis taps into the force of a bodying that shapes experience into its exuberant potential, exuberant not in its attachment to a subject, but exuberant in its chaosmosis, in the force of its expression across the precar- ious chasm of petrification and spark. A productive, material intervention emerges that takes the site of expression as exemplary of what it does, not what it fantasizes. The goal is not to locate the symptom. What happens, as Whitehead might say, happens, and it is how its effects resonate that makes the difference. Speculative pragmatism. Not what you think you see, but how the seeing materializes, and what it does. So you don’t perceive chairs? Sit on the ground instead. The face doesn’t form? Follow the light effects. Writing refuses to come linearly? Mobilize the words in the moving. Stand! Run! Jump! Wave your arms! Huddle, vocalize: whatever it takes. Because this is where the thinking happens, this is where language resides, a lan- guage that does not need to come out in words, a language in the bodying. A language in the bodying takes the shape of enthusiasm: it shapes de- sire in the moving. “A truly materialist psychiatry can be defined . . . by a double operation: introducing desire into the mechanism, and introducing production into desire” (Deleuze and Guattari 1983: 22, translation modi-
fied).