This is where Bifo gets it wrong, it seems to me, positing as he does desire as a counterpoint to depression or panic. He writes:
The process of subjectivation is based on conditions that have dramati- cally changed in the forty years since the publication of Deleuze and Guattari’s Anti-Oedipus: Capitalism and Schizophrenia. Reading that book was a defining moment in my intellectual and political experi- ence, in the first years of the 1970s, when students and workers were fighting and organizing spaces of autonomy and separation from capi- talist exploitation. Forty years after the publication of that book the landscape has changed so deeply that the very concept of desire has to be re-thought, as it is marking the field of subjectivation in a very dif- ferent way.15
According to Bifo, Deleuze and Guattari’s concept of desire “is in itself a force of liberation, and thus we did not see the pathogenic effects of the acceleration and intensification of the info-stimuli, that are linked to the
formation of the electronic infosphere and to precarization of work.”16 And yet Deleuze and Guattari are at pains throughout Anti-Oedipus to empha- size that desire is not reducible to a force of liberation. As Guattari explains in an interview after the book’s publication: “Our conception of desire was completely contrary to some ode to spontaneity or a eulogy to some un- ruly liberation. It was precisely in order to underline the artificial, ‘con- structivist’ nature of desire that we defined it as ‘machinic’: which is to say articulated with the most actual, the most ‘urgent’ machinic types. . . . De- sire appears to me as a process of singularization, as a point of proliferation and of possible creation at the heart of a constituted system” (in Genosko 1996: 128). No mode of existence is outside the workings of desire, Deleuze and Guattari argue. “In truth, social production is desiring production itself under determinate conditions. We maintain that the social field is imme- diately traversed by desire, that it is the historically determined product of desire, and that libido has no need of any mediation or sublimation, any psychic operation, any transformation in order to invest the productive forces and the relations of production. There is only desire and the social and nothing else” (1983: 29, translation modified). To think the shape of enthusiasm in its precarity is to emphasize the materiality of Deleuze and Guattari’s argument in Anti-Oedipus: “Desire produces the real, or stated another way, desiring production is nothing else than social production” (Deleuze and Guattari 1983: 30, translation modified).
Desire produces not the social preformed, but sociality, “sociality for two.” Always more-than, desire is what passes between, what reorients. Ac- tivated by the minor gesture, desire is machinic: it co-composes with ex- perience in the making to tune it to what it can do. Nothing mechanistic here: only agencements.
Autistic perception sees-feels the workings of desire, its machining, its facilitating. It feels the workings of desire in the patterns Baggs writes about, in the mobility in Bissonnette’s metaphors, in the “killingly difficult” of Chammi’s description of coming to language. What is perceived at this desiring interstice is the field itself in all its complexity, where, to quote Deleuze and Guattari again, “everything functions at the same time but amid hiatuses and ruptures, breakdowns and failures, stalling and short- circuits, distances and fragmentations, a sum that never succeeds in bring- ing its various parts together to form a whole” (1983: 42, translation modi- fied). Productive disjunction, or, in Deleuze and Guattari’s vocabulary, inclusive disjunction; a panoply of indecipherable effects, directly felt, ac- tively desiring in the rhythm of a collective oinking.
Undoing experience of its reordering through the figure of the stable “I,” schizoanalysis is concerned first and foremost with opening experience to its prepersonal singularities. This enables it to compose well with autis- tic perception and to design techniques that honor its precarity. For schizo- analysis is allergic to all neurotypical commands. “The task of schizoanal- ysis is to tirelessly undo egos and their presuppositions; to liberate the prepersonal singularities they enclose and repress; to mobilize the flows they would be capable of transmitting, receiving or intercepting; to estab- lish always further and more sharply the schizzes and the breaks well below conditions of identity; to mount the desiring machines that cut across each and group it with others. For each is a groupuscule and must live as such. . . . Schizoanalysis is so named because throughout its entire process of treatment it schizophrenizes, instead of neuroticizing, like psychoanal- ysis” (Deleuze and Guattari 1983: 434, translation modified).
To push experience to its schizoid pole is to take seriously the way in which modes of existence are multiple, uncountable in their potential ex- pressivity. Where the shape of enthusiasm is most palpable, this multi- plicity is often decried as “too much,” “too noisy,” “too uncontained,” as though a return to the solitary individual will provide solace. Certainly, it helps to have access to motor skills that can dependably find the right letter on the keyboard, but surely this is not enough to convince us that multi- plicity is a travesty. And yet this is what we say every time we bemoan the fate of autistics, or when we speak disparagingly about the complexity of neurologies that evade the comfortable center where existence tends to be most valued.
Anti-Oedipus remains a revolutionary book, and a current one. Taking the force of desire as its mantra, it speaks not of pathologies that are dis- abling, but to the very potential of moving away from what Guattari calls “normopathy.” It’s amazing what a group of depressives can do! Just watch the news: demonstrations are happening everywhere, and with each of them we see a reorienting of modes of existence that challenge the neolib- eral politics which frames our existence. Mobilizations in Turkey (Gezi Park, 2013) may begin to save a park, but very soon they are about political reform, about neoliberal dominance, about new forms of life-living. And this is not an isolated case. In the 2012 Montreal student strike we saw a similar emphasis not on discrete demands but on a wider rethinking of what it means to learn, to live, and to live well. This, it seems to me, dis- credits Bifo’s suggestion that “the global movement against capitalist glo- balization reached an impressive range and pervasiveness, but it was never
able to change the daily life of society. It remained an ethical movement, not a social transformer. It could not create a process of social recomposi- tion, it could not produce an effect of social subjectivation” (Berardi 2011: 12). For Bifo, if demonstrations do not produce something recognized as a different social system, they have made no difference. What about the what else of the in-act? What about the unwieldy effects of their continuing ac- tivity? Doesn’t this separation between the ethical and what Bifo calls “a social transformer” miss the point of the desiring machine that cuts to re- compose? Sure, the effects have not been felt in every corner of daily life. But they are felt: a change can be felt in the poststrike classroom in Mon- treal, in the students’ commitment to study and to the undercommons.17 A change can be felt since the wave of Occupy movements.18 A change can be felt across America in the wake of Ferguson.19 Are things rough? Yes, ab- solutely. Neoliberalism strangles potential every day. But new techniques for life-living are also being invented every day, activated by minor gestures that continuously transform what it means to act.