In a bid to do away with activism, Bifo writes:
The term “activism” became largely influential as a result of the antiglo- balization movement, which used it to describe its political commu- nication and the connection between art and communicative action. However, this definition is a mark of its attachment to the past and its inability to free itself from the conceptual frame of reference it inherited from the 20th century. Should we not free ourselves from the thirst for activism that left the 20th century to the point of catastrophe and war? Shouldn’t we set ourselves free from the repeated and failed attempt to act for the liberation of human energies from the rule of capital? Isn’t the path toward the autonomy of the social from economic and military mobilization only possible through a withdrawal into inactivity, silence, and passive sabotage? (2011: 36–37)
I would like to address Bifo’s remarks through a return to Wretches and Jabberers, turning to a few scenes where conversations about activism take place. Shortly after having arrived in India, in dialogue with Chammi, Larry types: “I think we are big time movers making a difference in peoples’ lives who can’t talk.” The words don’t come easily, and Larry has to fight a melt- down to get them out, but still he finds a way to turn the conversation
to what is most important: the activist movement for neurodiversity. A similar encounter happens in Japan. Naoki, a prolific autistic writer and art- ist who lives in Tokyo, runs up and down the stairs and seems to jump off the walls before he can sit down to write. But then the words come, without pleasantries, immediately addressing the urgent questions at hand. From Larry to Naoki: “Mobilize letters like patterns of thought like proud autis- tics we are.” No time for small talk: every word an effort. Writing, thinking, is in the act. And necessarily so, for the stakes are clear. Tracy, who travels around the world with Larry for the making of the film, does not at the time of the filming have a home: living conditions for autistic adults are extremely precarious. Even though he serves on two state-level advocacy committees, he depends on people who are paid to take care of him, and wonders every day whether he will be able to continue to afford to pay them. And yet his commitment to neurodiversity is unwavering. Depres- sion, anxiety, the agony of difference—these all remain. But they are not decisive in the way Bifo suggests they are. Rather, they are productive, ex- pressive of the multiplicity of experience out of which the movement for neurodiversity composes. “Let’s begin the world’s intelligence magnified organization,” Tracy types in conversation with Naoki and Larry. In Fin- land, a similar encounter occurs. In their first conversation, again without preamble, Antti, who spends his days in a care center folding towels and doing other kinds of busywork, types: “I’m interested in talking about our current experience, how we have changed as people. . . . I think now is a good time to bind the strings of friendship between us strong people who will pass the message.” Later Tracy adds: “We are a perfect example of in- telligence working itself out in a much different way.”
In the act—the force of activism, of activist philosophy—is not about the individual. At its best, it is about how the collective operates as a group- subject. This is what resonates in Wretches and Jabberers, not despite their anxiety, their unwieldy oversensing movements, their depression, but with this difference, in the shape of its enthusiasm, because of it, in the urgency of expression that is spoken in images that pull us into the movement of thought. Larry, Chammi, Tracy, Naoki, Antti, and also DJ, Tito, Emma, Ido, and so many others feel they have work to do, and they are doing it. This, again, not despite the exuberant, frustrating, excessive, deactivating, joyful interruptions to the flow of words, but with, in the act. Desire is revolutionary not when it is individualized (or turned against itself, as in Bifo’s account of depression), but when it creates differential effects. “And if we put forward desire as a revolutionary agency, it is because we believe
that capitalist society can endure many manifestations of interest, but no manifestation of desire, which would be enough to make its fundamental structures explode” (Deleuze and Guattari 1983: 455, translation modified). What is revolutionary is not the act in itself, but the opening of the act to its ineffability, to its more-than.
When the more-than is explored in its effects, a schizoanalytic pro- cess has begun. This process, as Deleuze and Guattari demonstrate, is not a method, nor is it a therapy in any conventional sense. It is an emergent attunement to the precarious range of petrification and spark, a tuning toward both the frenzied vocalizations of the autistic and the rock-like silence of the depressive (who may inhabit one and the same bodying). There is no hierarchy here—just a set of productive effects from the dis- array of a field in motion. The purpose is not to organize or select, but to make the way for something else to emerge—a collective oinking, an en- gaged discussion, a mobile patterning. From here, new modes of existence begin to take form.
Neurodiverse modes of existence must be created, and they must com- pose across difference in ways that remain mobile, in the act. Pathology is not the answer. Co-composition across the spectrum is necessary, as much between the precarity of the shape of enthusiasm at its two poles as on the spectrum of our collective difference, autistic or not. For we all have access to autistic perception, and we are all susceptible to falling into depression. For those of us for whom autistic perception comes less quickly, less easily, perhaps, as I’ve suggested before, it’s time to learn to chunk less, to refrain from quick categorization. This will likely not end neoliberalism, but it will continue the engaging process of inventing what life can do when it com- poses across collective resonances that listen to dissonance.
Bifo writes: “We have today a new cultural task: to live the inevitable with a relaxed soul. To call forth a big wave of withdrawal, of massive dis- sociation, of desertion from the scene of the economy, of nonparticipation in the fake show of politics” (Berardi 2011: 148). Wouldn’t such a task be the very recipe for the kind of depression Bifo forecasts? To act must not be overlaid with capitalism’s call to do, to make. In the act is something dif- ferent altogether: precarious, but creative. Not creative of capitalism’s “new- est new,” but creative of new forms of value, new ways of valuing modes of existence in their emergence and dissolution, new alignments to the time of the event. The challenge: to maintain the schism between the in-act and the act. Systems are quickly formed, as are our habits of existence. And if these systems, these habits, reorient toward the individual in the mode of
the preconstituted subject, we can be sure that there will be a deadening of the operations of the movement for neurodiversity. But this isn’t where I think we’re headed. I prefer to listen to the autistics named above, most of them young adults. For they reassure me: the in-act is where the joy is, where the minor gestures tune experience to its more-than, where activity is not yet dedicated to a cause, or to an effect, but open for the desiring.