Arno Boehler (AB): Do we know what a body can do?
Erin Manning (EM): For me, what a body can do has been a key ques- tion for the past decade. My own approach to the question has been to move toward the prelinguistic and ask how movement activates a body in the midst of a process of becoming. I call this bodying. Work- ing through a lexicon of movement in its preacceleration—before dis- placement as such—I have wanted to explore how movement activates a modality of thought that is of the becoming-body. Such a thinking cannot be directly articulated in language, and yet it is a thinking (or a thinking-feeling) in its own right. A thinking in the moving. What’s in- teresting about this is that it moves thought from a category of organi- zation toward an expression of difference. Thought in the moving is the activation of a differential. It is the making-felt of a changing relation- scape. So, I suppose the first answer I could give is that what a body can do is think, in the moving.
I spend a lot of time watching bodies move—in the subway, on the street, in the classroom, in the studio. And I ask myself two questions: what makes us so certain that thinking is not in-the-moving, or in-the- feeling; and what makes us so certain that we can define a body in time and space as a separate and individual entity? These are old Cartesian categories, the first putting thought in the mind, out of the body; the second placing the body outside of its relation to the world. Whatever makes it possible for us to think of a body as defined apart from its par- ticipation in the world is the same thing that allows us to believe that thought can be contained by language, apart from the movements that generate it.
In my account of what a body can do, I therefore begin with an at- tention to the question of the “in-act” of the doing. This emphasizes the microgestures of becoming that are in the bodying. These microgestures are a thinking-in-the-act, I argue, not in the sense that they resolve into this or that conscious thought, but in the sense that they are replete with intensity and directionality. Bodying does resolve into this or that form, eventually, but it does not begin there, nor does it remain there. A body is the metastability of those microgestures more than it is a form as such. If we begin with the microgesture, it becomes clear that a body is more associated milieu (Simondon) than form. What a body does is ecological: it becomes in relation to a changing environment, and what it does in that relation is what it is. A body is a tending, an inflection, an incipient directionality. And this incipiency includes a thinking in its own right.
Of course, what a body does always has a place and a time. People often ask how such an account of the body has agency. I prefer the no- tion of agencement to agency—the sense of directionality occasioned by movement rather than a subject-based intentionality—but however you define this moment of “making a difference,” there is no question that how it individuates in this time and place, in co-composition—or how it matters, here and now—belongs to what a body can do. A body makes a difference in terms of how this or that vector, this or that inflec- tion, alters the conditions of this or that event. So, that a body is black or white or female or transgender does make a difference. Of course it does! But these are less “states” of an existing body than vectors of a becoming-body that themselves change over time. Identity, like indi- viduation, is emergent. What a body can do is change.
AB: So you suggest that bodies envelop a certain field which we and other bodies already share. This means that one cannot separate the question of what a body can do from the milieu in which it dwells in relation with others. During your workshop with Brian (Massumi) you presented a beautiful picture: What happens when there is light coming through a window and it affects you? Being in touch with the sun is more than being a subject contemplating an external object. One is becoming sun- like in this moment?
EM: Yes, that’s a beautiful way of putting it. As an artist, I have always been very interested in these kinds of threshold effects. Like that moment when you are sitting at a café and you have been in an intense conversa-
tion and suddenly you look up and you notice that it got dark, but you cannot say when the light changed. And yet, upon noticing the shift in light you immediately know that the changing conditions affected how the conversation progressed. Threshold effects make a difference, and yet they are rarely experienced as such.
AB: Would this not mean that bodies are “worldwide entities”? Singulari- ties of a manifold, worldwide field, shared not only with other human bodies, but with innumerous nonhuman bodies as well? Like our liai- sons with the sun, for instance? An intimate relationship between our human body and a nonhuman body? Or the special liaison of plants with the sun?
EM: William James said that the relations are as real as the terms of the re- lation. That is how he defines radical empiricism. So yes, the relation- scape of the bodying is worldwide, even otherworldly, in the sense that it invents worlds. A body is a field of relation out of which and through which worldings occur and evolve. We know neither where a world be- gins nor where a body ends. What is real, what we know, are relations. This is speculative pragmatism: relations are real, here and now, but what they can do is unknowable in advance, must continuously be in- vented.
What is at stake in the field of relation is how the relation evolves, how it expresses itself, what it becomes, what it can do. The relation can never be properly called human. It may pass through the human or connect to certain human tendencies, but in and of itself, it is always more-than human.
The question of the nonhuman or the more-than-human is of cen- tral importance as regards what a body can do. A bodying begins and returns to the midst, to the relational field that is more-than human. A focus on the middling of experience leads us toward a modality of think- ing the becoming-body in a directly ecological sense in terms of an ecol- ogy of practices that includes the human but is not limited to the human. One of the ways I have tried to address this directly ecological expe- rience of the world is through what I have called autistic perception. I define autistic perception as a direct experience of emergent field effects. When autistics first perceive, they do not tend to see forms as nonautistics do. Instead, they see perception’s very emergence: edges, shadows, colors, shapes. What takes a half second for a neurotypical to perceive as form can take up to five minutes for an autistic. This lag in
the taking of form allows autistics to perceptually dwell in the shape- shifting of experience and gives them a lived sense of the malleability of form. This is not completely outside neurotypical experience, it is simply less often directly experienced—artists hone such perceptual tendencies, and they are not unfamiliar to those who drink or take drugs, or those who experience extreme states due to shock or love or fear. However we come to autistic perception, what is important, I think, is the taking account of a phase of experience where it is the asso- ciated milieu of relation which is at the forefront not only conceptually, but perceptually. Were we to honor such a perceptual account of pro- cess, I think we might come to see the everyday quite differently. This would then have important effects not only on our experience of the world, but on what we do collectively, politically.
To experience the world in its shape-shifting alerts us to the real- ness of relation and connects to a more-than-human horizon, I think. It allows us to think ecologically, from the middle. And from there, there is an opening to the felt expression of thought-in-the-moving, to language’s prelinguistic expressions—what I have elsewhere called prearticulation—to the complex rhythms of what lies between the con- scious and the nonconscious at the interstices of the human and the nonhuman, the more-than-human.
AB: So how I understand you is that it is not enough to speak only in the name of the other things, but really to change, or to open up a space in which another form of relationality with other nonhuman things be- comes possible. So it is not only a matter of language and a matter of morality to take care of other nonhuman things, and give them a voice, but to work on the level of affection, of affect, of being affected, of what you and Brian also called tendencies which show up in relation to others and to change our behaviors. Or, as you beautifully said before, to care for the event.
EM: Yes, I think that there can be a tendency when we talk about the non- human to assume we are talking about the animal or the vegetal, which we are not necessarily doing at all. When you speak about the field, what you are taking into account is the more-than-human of the animal, the more-than-human of the oxygen, the more-than-human of the human. I call this speciation, as opposed to species. Relational fields rather than categories. Emergent constellations. A constellation meets a constella- tion rather than a particularity meeting a particularity. If you begin to
think in terms of that kind of multiplicity, then immediately, I think, there is that sense of the care for the event, because the constellation is already eventful. As Whitehead would say, an event always carries with it concern for its eventness. Self-enjoyment of the event, in the event. This is punctual, of course. A constellation or speciation is emergent here and now, this or that way. Pragmatic, yet speculative.
One way I think about the care for the event in the event is in terms of what I call the dance of attention. Not human attention, but field at- tention—the event’s attention to its own development, its own concres- cence. When it is strong, that’s when we leave a dance performance, for instance, and say: “Wow, that really worked!” What is felt in such instances is the lived intensity of the event’s capacity to create a field of experience. There is little in our everyday lives that facilitates this kind of dance of attention, but it does take place. It seems to me that it would be important to work harder to develop techniques that allow for that dance of attention to be awakened or energized, to be made possible. It is there, it is latently there, I think, all the time. But it can be overcoded by the habitual tendencies of subject-centered intentionality that work continuously to take us out of the field of relation and into the indi- vidual, as though the individual could be cordoned out from the event. The techniques to be invented are ones that open the perceptual regis- ter beyond intentionality to the thought-in-the-moving of the complex emergent patterns of our daily lives.
AB: If we take bodies as worldwide entities, the global field, which they share, becomes one of the most important features of any body. Deleuze even speaks of a transcendental field, the all-oneworld which any body shares with all others by populating it.
EM: I think of this as worlding, and it reminds me of the necessity to con- sider the body always from the perspective of the collective, or the trans- individual. I am thinking of an example here. In disability activism it is often said that disability is not what happens to the body—it is not about the state of the body. Disability is about a culture that does not ac- commodate diversity. So it is not the body (alone) that is disabled; the culture is disabled in its incapacity to create accommodations that al- low for difference—different kinds of bodying—to exist. I am thinking about a disability activist, Harriet McBryde-Johnson, a lawyer. She once was invited by the New York Times to do a spread on her work for Not Dead Yet, an organization very much against euthanasia and assisted
suicide. At first, when I was reading Harriet McBryde-Johnson as part of my ongoing research into disability politics, it was to better understand why it was that so many disability activists were so adamantly against assisted suicide. Because, from my perspective, it seemed that what a body can do is also choose to die. What I learned through my research was that not every body is given the same right to live. A disabled body is often a body seen by the medical establishment as not worthy of life. So a disabled person who has cancer doesn’t necessarily get the same kind of care as a nondisabled person. This happens in subtle ways— for instance, a doctor might be quicker to speak to the disabled person about palliative care, assuming that their quality of life is already jeop- ardized by their disability and that the further strain of treatment may not be worthwhile. This example, which comes up very often in disabil- ity activist blogs (see, for instance, Bad Cripple), emphasizes the way disability is taken as an individual rather than as a collective, cultural problem—an ecology of practices. To turn this around, it is necessary to keep asking not how this or that body performs, but how this singular field of relation opens itself to the complexity of bodying. In the case of disability, too often an individual normative standard is imposed that presumes able-bodiedness as the very definition of a body, ignoring the complexity of evolution within all bodyings.
Lately I’ve been trying to understand accommodation within this context of transindividual bodying. Within disability politics, as I men- tioned, there tends to be an understanding that it is the lack of accom- modation that creates the category of disability. This is no doubt true and needs to change: there needs to be a general understanding that making our worlds accessible to difference is to enrich them. But I want to push the term even further beyond the able-bodied/disabled divide, always keeping in mind that the disability cannot be reduced to the per- son; that it is rather the lack of accommodation in the everyday environ- ment that creates the rift between the so-called able and the disabled. Everywhere I turn within the complex work that unfolds within disabil- ity activism, I find accounts of the frustrations of accommodation as it plays out in everyday life. The concerns are often pragmatic, though always engaged with philosophical questions about why accommoda- tion is so difficult to fold into our cultural landscapes as both concept and act: why is it that the tables that “accommodate” wheelchairs in a restaurant tend to be in the worst possible places (beside the bath- room, out of sight), why is it that “accommodating” entrances are in the
back of hotels or in the bowels of buildings rather than out there in the open? Why isn’t every entrance designed to accommodate difference, and why is it that there is a sense, still very strong within architecture (and within so many of our practices) that accommodation is a nasty af- terthought? The issue also goes deeper, touching on what is imaginable (thinkable, perceivable) within the field of experience—I wonder here, for instance, about the way in which thresholds between rooms become apparent if you’re in a wheelchair, or if you’re blind, but otherwise may not “appear” in experience. Without underestimating these important pragmatic issues, I wonder whether there might be a way to take back the term “accommodation” to speak about all bodyings, thereby open- ing up the question beyond the categories of the able and the disabled. Is there any event that does not require accommodation? Are we will- ing to think of what a body can do in a way that takes seriously how the event accommodates its shifting ecologies?
What would it mean to become aware, for instance, of how a lack of accommodation impedes the dance of attention of an event from being felt? What might it mean to make accommodation, seen as a collec- tive engagement that tends fields of relation, a central concern of the everyday, in all instances, at all times, including accommodation in the strictest physical, architectural sense, but also accommodation to neu- rodiverse forms of perception and attention? The absence of a robust engagement with accommodation has to do with a practiced ignorance of the complexity of differentials at the heart of speciations. Elsewhere I have argued that this practiced ignorance is at the heart of neurotypical identity politics and its unwavering belief in the volition-intentionality- agency triad.
Accommodation understood this way is not an individual concern. It is a care for the event in its modulation. How the event accommodates is not separate from what a body can do.
Some people might say that this sounds utopian. I don’t actually think that we are talking about something utopian. The seeds for this are everywhere present. This already happens in pockets of existence; it happens in the corners, sometimes quite obviously, sometimes much less so. The trick is, I think, to make those corners matter.
AB: You founded a SenseLab to make the care of the event matter? What kind of territory, what kind of accommodation, what kind of hospitality, of care, cura, curie, and courting takes place there?
EM: You touched on the core concept of the SenseLab, which is hospital- ity. But it isn’t an intersubjective hospitality, as you pointed out. It is an event-based hospitality. To create a thought-experiment, an action- experiment like the SenseLab, the event has to be hospitable to learning, to thinking, and to the collaborative gesture that feeds both.
Eleven years into it, what I can say is that the event-based hospital- ity at the heart of our collective practice has made it possible for us to engender a culture of affirmation. I hadn’t really seen it this way until I heard a SenseLabber explain to someone else that what we do at the SenseLab is say yes! I loved this description and wondered how this practice of saying yes has fed our modes of collaboration, allowing us to develop ways of collective decision-making that are not based in a kind of Habermasian consensual politics. Thinking it through, it became clear to me that creating an affirmative practice doesn’t mean simply saying “Yes, I follow you through every aspect of this idea.” It means “Yes, we’ll try this and collectively hone the effects.” The question thus moves beyond how this or that is a “good” idea to what the idea can do in relation to the event with which it co-composes. The selection of one idea from the many becomes not a decision-making practice that takes place outside the event, but an emergent tuning from within the event. We follow the idea that best takes us wherever the event needs to go. This means that there is very little sense of who “owns” the idea. The idea becomes a proposition in the Whiteheadian sense: it does some- thing, and that something has effects. If what it does is invigorate, in- tensify, make itself hospitable to the other event-based inflexions and tendencies, the idea takes hold. If not, that particular idea simply tends not to be developed then and there. But ideas do get re-taken-up later, suddenly reemerging in new contexts, often brought forward by dif- ferent people than those who might originally have offered them up. What I like about this approach—an approach that emerged organically over time—is that it makes apparent that for an event to do its work, the event-potential of the idea must get taken up over the individual’s stake in it. This allows for forms of collaboration to emerge at the level of the incipiency of thought—in retrospect we often can’t remember whose idea it was in the first place.
This affirmative stance allows us, I think, to be sensitive to the de- mands of the event in its unfolding while also collectively orienting it. This is complex because we are so accustomed to working with the competing tendency, wherein we separate the individual subject from
the event, assuming an individual intentionality. At the SenseLab we’ve been able to sidestep this tendency for the most part by using the event as a training ground for the invention of techniques coming out of a col- lective experimentation with the idea as affirmative proposition. Our process is to work together to mold an idea into a technique that can affect the conditions of the event, altering how the event comes to ex- pression, affecting its dance of attention. Techniques we develop usually center on the event’s thresholds—the moving across registers of the event: in a given event this could include the shift from small groups to large groups, shifts in location, shifts in speed or intensity. For instance, for each event we plan we set up modes of introduction and contact that seek to intensify existing shifts in register, and then we participate in these shifts to see whether the conditions we are co-creating, with the event, make a difference in how the event unfolds and what it facilitates.1 Our approach involves a kind of structured improvisation that builds on an acute form of listening to the unfolding of a process in real-time. Having established what we call enabling constraints, having prepared the threshold, having created the conditions for a coming-together in the mode of affirmation, we then explore how the event facilitates the creation of what Guattari calls “a group-subject,” an ecological subjec- tivity in-formed by the event. There are many failures, of course, some of which we take to be enabling constraints toward the future creation of techniques. Usually a failure is experienced by a resubjectifying on the figure of the individual. The problem with that is that it reestablishes the status quo, foregrounding the individual as the center of performativity rather than making the event the site of care and hospitality.
Over the years, as we have honed our practice, we have moved beyond asking how events are created (what makes an event an event) to asking what an event needs to be able to do. An event-based practice needs to reinvent itself continuously, and it needs to resist becoming institutionalized. It needs to have necessity, in the Nietzschean sense. It needs to create its own value, its own modes of evaluation. Regularly we ask ourselves whether the SenseLab still creates modes of inquiry that are productive of effects that surprise us and move us toward modes of existence that are qualitatively different from ones we have become accustomed to. Do our events still produce thought? Are they still ca- pable of making felt the thinking-in-the-moving I discussed earlier? So far, I think they are, and I believe this is largely due to the fact that we’ve never had a concept of membership. To be part of the SenseLab
is simply to want to participate. The more you’re involved, the more you affect our practices, but there is no ideal amount of involvement and no ideal time to get involved. Everything makes a difference.
AB: Very beautiful, very beautiful! What you said is also important for Su- sanne [Valerie] and me. Susanne comes from the arts and is highly in- terested in philosophy, and I come from philosophy and am highly inter- ested in the arts. For us it was always important to do both, philosophy and art, or, what we call “philosophy on stage,” a mode of arts-based philosophy. Something we are hungry for and think is necessary. Today traditional academic philosophers have a lot of problems with bringing the arts together with philosophy. They think that “mixing” the arts with philosophy makes philosophy unserious. So would you—this is my last question—say something about your experience bringing art and phi- losophy together?
EM: Through the SenseLab, I’ve found an ever-evolving community of people who think at the interstices of thought-in-the-making (like you and Susanne, like Brian and so many others) and I’ve found that it is possible, through a transdisciplinary perspective, to reinvent what it means to create in the interval of making and thinking. This has made it easier not only to overcome the closed-mindedness of disciplinary boundaries but also to develop techniques that assist me in both becom- ing more rigorous as a philosopher and to have a more sustained prac- tice as an artist. It’s taken time because the practices are not necessarily complementary, at least not in the way they make or take time in my own experience of them. What I mean by that is that I can’t easily move from writing to artmaking, or vice versa, because their ways of making and taking time are so different. I need to create holes of time that can be populated by each practice—holes that can capture the failures in the thinking and the making that are at the heart of creating new ways of approaching each medium. So a busy back-and-forth produces only frustration. Over the years the best approach I have found is to work in chunks, spending a period of two to three months reading and writing, and then changing gears completely and spending time in the studio. I rarely understand the link between the two practices while I am in the making, and I don’t try to impose one.
One technique I am using at the moment to try to make a bridge between practices is to allow projects to develop without necessarily deciding what form they will eventually take. This involves allowing the
project to investigate its own ways of generating itself before deciding how it comes to expression. In the past months, this led me to work mostly in the studio, developing the conditions for a participatory tex- tile work I am calling The Smell of Red, but lately it has moved me back to my desk to explore the concept of the minor gesture, a concept I am working to define in relation to what I think of as the “artful” within the participatory. This is rare for me—to find a passage between writing and art where the writing actually feeds the artmaking and vice versa.
In the end, though, each practice has to be able to do its own work: the philosophy and the art have to stand on their own. And so the rigor of each practice has to be honed, and this is of course difficult with the time constraints we all have. But the SenseLab functions as a good con- duit, as does the teaching I do, which both involve close philosophical readings paired with work in the artist studio.
Perhaps one of the most concrete ways art and philosophy come to- gether in my practice is around the question of value. Brian and I did a TEDx talk some time ago called “For a Pragmatics of the Useless,” where we were trying to create a vocabulary for a valuing of experience that is not allied to either capitalist market-value or prestige-value.2 Philosophy and art both sit on the side of prestige-value more than on the side of market-value. But the prestige-value obviously has market effects. Some philosophers and artists have chosen a kind of nondo- ing as a way of responding to the prestige-value of art and philosophy. The problem with this approach is that it simplifies the act, reducing it to a dichotomy (to act or not to act). I would rather operate within a Spinozist frame, where there is an emphasis on rest in movement and movement in rest. I think that there is a lot of doing in the nondoing and a lot of nondoing in the doing. We need to keep that complexity there, focusing perhaps more on the subtleties of the in-act of autistic perception, an in-act that cannot be reduced so easily to form and cate- gory, to intentionality and volition. In our TEDx talk, we proposed the reinvigoration of the concept of uselessness, emphasizing a kind of doing, an in-act, where value is not preinscribed but created in the event.
I hope that both the philosophy and the art I do are useless in this sense. As more and more of us actively—activistly—reframe the use- less in a speculatively pragmatic sense, perhaps we can redefine value outside of a capitalist mandate. In so doing, perhaps we’ll even be able to come back to the original idea of philosophy, which, as you know, had
nothing to do with a discipline. Philosophy was what you did in relation to other practices, it was what emerged from practices that remained other, such as art, mathematics, physics. It was never meant to be a field that needed to separate itself out. What if we took philosophy and art not as disciplines but as forms of thinking in the making, and making in the thinking? What if the thinking-doing were conceived as a value in itself, independent of what form it takes?
AB: Thank you!
EM: Thank you! It was a real pleasure.