The minor gesture is an operative cut that opens experience to its potential. This operation is affirmative to its core—it affirms the field in its transfor- mation, and it affirms the way this transformation emboldens the in-act of experience in the making. Affirmation is the creative force of a reorienta- tion in the event. What affirmation does, how it effects the cut, is what gives it affective valence in the event. The affirmative cut of the minor gesture catalyzes a reordering. Cuts are not good or bad. It is what they do that makes a difference. The affirmative cut is not the bestowing of a value judg- ment onto experience. Affirmation is not good or evil, optimistic or cruel.1 Nietzschean affirmation counters the Hegelian dialectic. Where the di- alectic builds on contradiction and opposition, affirmation refuses to stand against. Critique is not its motor, but neither is acceptance. Affirmation does not do its work according to the either-or of a field predetermined. Nor does it seek to counter (or accept) the it is of the given. Cutting into the event is not a process of negation or dialectical synthesis. Affirmation moves at the pace of the differential, aligning to the event’s points of inflec- tion, to its operative tangents, where the form of experience has not yet
quite emerged.
Affirmation does not yet know what the field can do, and so it neither predicts nor (de)values it in advance of its coming to be. Affirmation does not position: it experiments. It is pragmatic in its speculation. Speculative pragmatism is experimental to its core, asking at every stage how the cut makes a difference. Speculative pragmatism does not comply with the ex-
isting parameters of experience. It does not stand outside them to judge. Speculative pragmatism, in the name of affirmation, invents, doing its work at the limit where what if? becomes what else?
For Nietzsche, affirmation is never reactive. Reactivity is a secondary gesture. It is an interpretation of the cut. Though it seems to coincide with the cutting, in effect reactivity stands just outside its momentum, peering in from the edges. In the interpreting or judging stance, reactivity mutes the minor gesture. It cements the field, holds it to what it is. Interpretation- as-judgment only asks what if from the solid stance of the it is. It does not risk the what else. The categories are clear even when they are being chal- lenged. This is not to suggest that there is no work to do in interpretation. Nor does it suggest that in interpretation all potential is cast aside: inter- pretation can certainly be affirmative, curious, and creative. It is to say that when interpretation becomes judgment and thus takes the place of affir- mation, the event is held in place and its potential tunes toward reactivity. With judgment, the work of thinking, of encountering, is laid out in terms of a field already oriented. Once judgment takes over, it takes a lot to reen- ergize the field, to move it toward its minor quality.