Affirmation’s movement toward the world is one of mutual inclusion. In a logic of both-and it facilitates modes of coexistence for difference. Its work is not to resolve contradiction. This does not mean that affirmation is comfortable or comforting. Its work is to invent conditions for new ways of activating the threshold of experience, new ways of experimenting in the complexity of what does not easily fold into a smooth surface. Affir- mation is striating more than smoothing, its operative potential more at the level of the crease than the stable ground. Affirmation is the push, the pull that keeps things unsettled, a push that ungrounds, unmoors, even as it propels.
Because of how it makes the threshold operative, affirmation is nega- tion’s most powerful enemy. Negation’s work involves deactivating the threshold. Where negation stops, turning the field inward, affirmation moves, propelling it elsewhere. There is affinity between affirmation and negation, but as Deleuze writes, there is no confusion (2002: 54). Where negation remains so certain of the stakes of the encounter, affirmation de- lights in the creativity of what else that encounter could do. Where negation is content to dwell in the judgment of the it is, affirmation is too curious to
stay within the already-defined now. This is what makes negation reactive, and affirmation active. “Only active force asserts itself, it affirms its dif- ference and makes its difference an object of enjoyment and affirmation. Reactive force, even when it obeys, limits active force, imposes limitations and partial restrictions on it and is already controlled by the spirit of the negative” (Nietzsche 1968 in Deleuze 2002: 55–56). Two versions of the in-act: one heavy with the weight of its delimitations, the other exuberantly reaching-toward.
As long as we remain in the element of the negative it is no use chang- ing values or even suppressing them, it is no use killing God: the place and the predicate remain, the holy and the divine are preserved, even if the place is left empty and the predicate unattributed. But when the ele- ment is changed, then, and only then, can it be said that all values known or knowable up to the present have been reversed. Nihilism has been defeated: activity recovers its rights but only in relation and in affinity with the deeper instance from which these derive. Becoming-active ap- pears in the universe, but as identical with affirmation as will to power. (Deleuze 2002: 171)
This is not to say that there isn’t activity in negation. Negative critique’s work is to actively trace what the event cannot do. This is an acting, but one that knows, in advance, what the orientation will be. For negative critique can only be for or against. For-against is the gesture of the either-or. The stakes are clear. This makes negative critique deeply complicit with the way things are. It is in this sense that negation remains, always, in the it is, even when its stance may be heard as the it is not.
Affirmation does not do its work in the register of contradiction. It does not dwell in the either-or. It does not set up the stage in advance and work backward from its position-taking. This is why for affirmation, it is never a question of making-active from the perspective of reactivity. In affirma- tion there is no reactivity. Affirmation activates in the activity of the event. It activates in the folds of the event’s creases, connecting with their own becoming-active. There is always more for affirmation, more-than.
Affirmation does not see negation as its other. It operates in a com- pletely different logic. Affirmation creates the trajectory, and from there the potential of the what else emerges. Negation, on the other hand, travels a closed circle predictable in its choreography. Though there is movement, it goes only where it has gone before. Negation’s act is ultimately empty: it tends only to what it knows it knows. Setting what is against what is, there
is no desire for difference. There is no desire. This sterility keeps it safe. From its vantage point of the safety of the well-trodden path, negation ob- serves: it does not engage except to deny, to close down, to set apart, to name the stakes, deintensifying the threshold of encounter, of difference. At its limit, it does not even give in to this gesture. It simply closes the door. Because of its reactivity, negation is stifled in its capacity for creativity.
This makes it susceptible to what Nietzsche calls ressentiment—the deep resentment of the world as it is and the tireless wish for the what was. Of course negation would deny any commitment to the what was. Negation is anything but nostalgic. And yet its logic is deeply aligned with that of Nietzsche’s last men, who decry the future, wishing that the what is were not. In a negative alignment to the futurity in the present, the last men work to keep the what was alive, turning their back on change, on differ- ence. While negative critique’s skepticism of the what is and by extension the what was is rooted in a different set of values, what makes negative cri- tique an ally of the last men is the disavowal of the cut of affirmation and its potential to shift the course of time. For both the last men and the critic, time’s differential is the enemy. This makes the last men the best allies of negative critique. Listen as the last men sit around the table and you will hear the voice of the critic among them, decrying the world as it is. The critic is most comfortable where ressentiment dwells.
Ressentiment creeps up on you. What seemed active soon leads you to the same old, tired values. The worn paths become the only ones in sight, and what seemed like a taking-of-position now looks more like a dead end. Negation is, in the end, predictable, and this predictability tends to close in on itself. Resentment builds, and with it a loss of intensity, a kind of ap- athetic anxiety that keeps us in our place. “It is as it is,” we sigh. It would be a waste of energy to want it to be otherwise.
Is it? Is this path, this architecture, this choreography, truly “as it is”? Hasn’t even this worn path changed since yesterday? Can’t you see the brush of new growth? The problem with ressentiment is that it drags its feet in the same ruts day after day. It doesn’t want to feel the new growth.