Ressentiment is particularly invested in framing memory: memory is what holds the what was in place. The ills, the mistreatments, the judgments and abuses, these become an echo chamber that resonates in the taut alignment between past and present, the worldview always over the shoulder. In the
context of the debt owed to African Americans, Fred Moten writes: “There’s a very important, and let’s call it righteous strain, of Afro-American and Afro-Diasporic studies that we could place under the rubric of debt collec- tion. And it’s basically like, ‘we did this and we did that, and you continue not to acknowledge it. You continue to mis-name it. You continue to vio- lently misunderstand it. And I’m going to correct the record and collect this debt.’ And there’s a political component to it, too. Maybe that’s partly what the logic of reparations is about” (Moten and Harney 2013: 151). To remember becomes a daily practice. The horror of oppression soon occu- pies the whole of remembrance. The weight of debt choreographs this cir- cuit. The debt is real, as is the memory. The resentment is justified. A repay- ment would make a difference. But would it take us out of the cycle? And is this cycle not, despite its urgency, reactive? In operating so firmly against, does this cycle not also deintensify the not-yet of experience in the making? Moten continues: “They want an acknowledgement of the debt because it constitutes something like a form of recognition, and that becomes very problematic because the form of recognition that they want is within an already existing system. They want to be recognized by sovereignty as sov- ereign, in a certain sense” (2013: 152). The debt, as framed by ressentiment becomes the credit that keeps a certain version of life going. A debt remains to be paid, a debt the future cannot rectify. Debt creates a cycle we resent. This cycle is what is familiar, safe in its predictability, and so we continue to dwell in its closed loop, even though it makes us miserable. We’d like to move on, to be elsewhere, but the threshold of past to present always seems to open to the same conditions of indebtedness. If only we could get rid of that debt, we know we would feel better. If only we could get enough credit. Nietzschean affirmation energizes that threshold. It creates the condi- tions for another way of entering, another way of walking. A different path reveals itself. The affirmative path is rocky and unsteady. No well-trodden ruts here. This path doesn’t know where it’s headed. It promises nothing. It gives no credit, and repays no debt. This is what affirmation knows: credit is what keeps us indebted. “They say we have too much debt. We need better credit, more credit, less spending. They offer us credit repair, credit coun- seling, microcredit, personal financial planning. They promise to match credit and debt again, debt and credit. But our debts stay bad” (Moten and
Harney 2013: 61).
Our debts stay bad because we are owed as much as we owe. We are owed a better world. We are owed reparations for the racism, for the sex- ism, for the horrors of the genocides we have survived, for the sexual abuse
we have lived through. We are owed for the judgments we face each day in a world that refuses to accommodate us, a world that excludes us from proper education. And we owe. We owe the environment better conditions for surviving, for thriving. We owe our children more opportunities for movement, for independent exploration. We owe the woman who sleeps on the street. We owe the drug addict who suffers from mental illness. We owe the black man who can’t walk safely at night. We owe the Indigenous women who keep disappearing.2 None of this is in question. We are owed. And we owe.
A culture of affirmation does not deny that there is an infinite debt to be repaid. The difference is that the response to the debt, to the indebt- edness, isn’t reactive. What keeps it from falling into ressentiment is that it refuses to dwell in the unfulfillable wish. Instead, it moves elsewhere, ask- ing, as Moten and Harney do, what else? What else can we do in the face of this unpayable debt? What else can we do in this culture of credit which breeds ressentiment? How else can the suffering be mitigated? Because let’s be clear: repayment can never undo deep and life-changing suffering. It can only recognize it. And while this recognition is definitely something, is it enough? I don’t believe it is. It keeps us within the same tight circle. It holds us to the crafting of experience as oriented by the perpetrator: the repayment of the debt is, after all, always done in the name of the sovereign who now holds the power to repay or bestow apology. To believe that pay- ment is possible, to believe that payment will do the job, that payment will still the anguish and change the stakes, that recognition of our pain by the dominant class will fundamentally alter our conditions, is still, no matter how important, to return us to the dialectic.