Fred Moten writes:
I feel like I want to be part of another project. Which is to say I’m not acceding to the fact; it’s not like I’m just trying to turn my eye from it. I don’t want to accept in silence without protest all the different forms of inequality and exploitation that emerge as a function of the theft and of the failure to acknowledge the debt. . . . But I also know that what it is that is supposed to be repaired is irreparable. It can’t be repaired. The only thing we can do is tear this shit down completely and build some- thing new. (Moten and Harney 2013: 151–152)
How to will something new? Nietzsche’s will to power is often misunder- stood as the force of an individual will. This misunderstanding turns the will into the volitional act of a preexisting subject. The will to power is not that. It is what brings out the difference in the event. It is the force through which experience tunes and orients. Gilles Deleuze writes: “The question which Nietzsche constantly repeats, ‘what does a will want, what does this one or that one want?,’ must not be understood as the search for a goal, a motive or an object for this will. What a will wants is to affirm its difference. In its essential relation with the ‘other’ a will makes its difference an object of affir- mation” (2002: 9). The will to power activates the field of relation by shifting its relations of power. This power is directed by the force of affirmation itself. What moves affirmation is not the subject. Affirmation is in the event, activated and motivated by a will to power that orients the event to its in- cipient tendency. The will to power is the push-pull within affirmation that forces the event to act. From this act, subjects and objects emerge, but they are never in advance of it. A philosophy of the event is never an ontology, never a story of being before becoming. A philosophy of the event is onto-
genetic: it moves before it is.
Nietzsche talked of the will to power as the feeling of power. “Will” may just be the wrong word: too quickly aligned to volition, too quickly con- nected to the subject. Certainly here, in a book skeptical about the place of volition within subject formation (and agency), “will” would seem an odd word to use. Deleuze writes: “For Nietzsche, the capacity for being affected is not necessarily a passivity but an affectivity, a sensibility, a sensation. It is in this sense that Nietzsche, even before elaborating the concept of the will to power and giving it its full significance, was already speaking of a feeling of power. Before treating power as a matter of will he treated it as a matter of feeling and sensibility” (2002: 62).
The event is alive with affective tonality. Its power is its capacity to feel. Its moods, its colors, its tones—all of these contribute to its leanings, to what it can do. Feeling is not after the fact—it is what moves the act. The will to power, the feeling of power, is similarly what directs the event, what propels the event to land in just this or just that way. Whitehead speaks of how an event has a concern for its unfolding. The feeling of power: the ac- tivation of a differential sensibility in the event.
This differential sensibility is more-than-human. Nietzsche writes: “The fact is that the will to power rules even in the inorganic world, or rather that there is no inorganic world. Action at a distance cannot be eliminated, for one thing attracts another and a thing feels itself attracted. This is the
fundamental fact. . . . In order for the will to power to be able to manifest itself it needs to perceive the things it sees and feel the approach of what is assimilable to it” (Nietzsche 1968 in Deleuze 2002: 63). Action at a dis- tance means that the event does not begin or end with the human. The human can be and often is an aspect of the more-than that pulses through the event, but the event is not delimited by the human. In this worlding, in the ecology of events pulsing from force to form, before there is a fully defined human, there is what Whitehead calls the self-enjoyment of the occasion. The event is replete with feeling, feeling not a subjective, con- scious trait, but a mobile directionality, a potentializing tendency, in the event. How the event enjoys its coming-to-be will give it the color that will subsequently define it. This color will affect how the subject—or the superject, as Whitehead would say—comes to expression. The feeling of power is one way of articulating the qualitative complexity of what comes to be. Without the feeling of power, without the notion of the event’s self- enjoyment, the only qualitative potential lies in the human’s subjective judgment of the event. We are back at the dialectic.
Reactivity, ressentiment—these are human traits. Similarly, the cycle of debt and credit is profoundly human. Despite increased speculation on more-than-human elements such as weather, air, and water, the benefit is meant to be ours. Sure, we speak in the name of the environment, of “its” needs, but nevertheless, our habit is not to affirm, but to react: Look what the world is coming to! Look at what it’s doing to me, to my life, to my future! Sure, we take responsibility. We feel compelled. But too often we work only within the confines of the given.
Affirmation is always endangered by the reappropriation of the event by the forces that would make it reactive, that would undo it of its generative activity. It is very tempting to see ourselves at the center, directing expe- rience. In fact, this reorienting gesture toward our own needs has become second nature in many if not most of our cultures: our education, our train- ing has led us to believe that this is about us, about our feelings, about our identity, and that it is our judgment that matters most. We associate reason with objectivity, and objectivity with knowledge.
Second nature is reactive. Why not dwell instead in first nature? In affir- mation? Why give in to second nature? Why succumb to reactivity?
Reactivity does not happen in the event: it happens in the event’s after- math. It happens in the ways in which the event is taken up, reappropri- ated. It happens when the event is asked to pay a debt to the world “as we know it.” The becoming-reactive cuts into the in-act. Since the in-act can-
not properly be stopped, what occurs is the formation of a double perspec- tive, a second nature, one foot in the world and the other at its edges, as though one could be both outside looking in and in the midst. Since this is not really possible, since the event still agitates (us) no matter what we do, we must deaden it, deny it its potential, undo it of its agility. When this happens the in-act gets backgrounded in the name of the it is. This creates what Spinoza would call sad affects: affects that close the event to its po- tential. Reactivity is a mechanism of capture.
Sad affects are not the result of a sad situation any more than joy in Spi- noza is about happiness. Sad affects are created when an accounting takes place after the fact that negates bare activity, the agitation of all that comes to be.3 Soon nostalgia will follow (even if it is negated). For the settling of accounts will never really order experience as it is becoming: only experi- ence as it was can be encapsulated (and then only fleetingly, for it too, is replete with bare activity). The backgrounding of the in-act in the name of an ordering of experience produces sad affects because this cannot but create a deadening, in the event, of what might come to be.