Affirmation is the yes of the child’s “again!” (“Was that life? Well then, once more!”). This yes is not a simple acquiescence—Nietzsche warns us of be- coming the donkey who is willing to carry any and every load. Affirmation’s yes is a pull to engage with the operative tendencies of a fissure in the field of existence. It is an affirmation of the what if at the heart of the what else. Yes! does not mean “anything goes.” The affirmative yes enjoys the stakes of the event’s process, enjoys the unknowability of the operative cut that moves ex- perience to that which cannot be known in advance. Yes! is an enabling con- straint that promises nothing except a pragmatic stance of experimentation, a speculative pragmatism. From this yes!, many nos will follow, but no will never lead the way, for no has too much of a habit of knowing in advance.
Nietzsche writes of two kinds of suffering. There are those “who suffer from the superabundance of life” (Nietzsche 1968 in Deleuze 2002: 16). This suffering says yes! in a way that does not exclude the pain of the everyday. This yes! is not a masochism. It is an affirmation of the force of superabun- dance. It is a yes! to the more-than. The superabundance is a weight, but it is not the any-weight the donkey carries. It is a weight claimed and made operational in the context not of what life is, but what life can do. It is the weight of a debt unpayable, a debt without credit. The second kind of suf-
fering is consumed with “an impoverishment of life.” Those who suffer this way “make intoxication a convulsion, a numbness; they make suffering a means of accusing life, of contradicting it and also a means of justifying life, of resolving the contradiction” (Nietzsche 1968 in Deleuze 2002: 16). The first is affirmative, the second steeped in ressentiment. The first lives in the in-act of existence unfolding, the second feels the weight of existence’s debt and carries it even while reacting against it.
Existence’s debt recognizes itself in the shape preformed of the human. When we imagine what is owed to us, we imagine it taking the shape of an individual or a collection of individuals. This kind of debt grows around the individual and is contained by the individual. Harney writes: “There has to be a way in which there can be elaborations of unpayable debt that don’t always return to an individualization through the family or an indi- vidualization through the wage laborer, but instead the debt becomes a principle of elaboration” (2013: 151). What would it look like to think of debt without a subject?
Debt without a subject would spin centrifugally. Debt would become a figure uncontainable, an ungraspable force. As a principle of elaboration, debt would become the motor of another kind of process, one that doesn’t always lead back to us, to the human as central pivot of experience. Debt would instead become the unfathomable superabundance we carry not because we have no choice, but because, as more-than, we can share the weight, and we welcome that sharing.
“Credit keeps track. Debt forgets” (Moten and Harney 2013: 62). A shared debt would be a debt forgotten, a debt that forgets itself. It would be what Moten and Harney call bad debt. Debt forgotten is bad because its point of inception can no longer be traced. It exists in the world in a way that does not lead back to the individual.
Active forgetting is the ultimate affirmation in Nietzsche. “A specific ac- tive force must be given the job of supporting consciousness and renewing its freshness, fluidity and mobile, agile chemistry at every moment. This active super-conscious faculty is the faculty of forgetting” (Deleuze 2002: 113). Forgetting, for Nietzsche is “a plastic, regenerative and curative force” (Nietzsche 2002 in Deleuze 2002: 106). To forget debt does not mean to forgive it. The forgiveness of debt is still in the logic of credit. Credit “is a means of privatization and debt a means of socialization. . . . Debt is mutual. Credit runs only one way” (Moten and Harney 2013: 61). Credit keeps us cagey. Debt must be forgotten in order to leave behind the very idea of credit, the very idea that what we owe can be privatized.
To forget debt is to invent a new kind of justice, a justice that is only possible where debt never obliges, never demands, never equals credit, payment, payback. Justice is possible only where it is never asked, in the refuge of bad debt, in the fugitive public of strangers not communities, of undercommons not neighborhoods, among those who have been there all along from somewhere. To seek justice through restoration is to return debt to the balance sheet and the balance sheet never balances. It plunges toward risk, volatility, uncertainty, more credit chasing more debt, more debt shackled to credit. To restore is not to conserve, again. There is no refuge in restoration. Conservation is always new. It comes from the place we stopped while we were on the run. It’s made from the people who took us in. (Moten and Harney 2013: 63)
This new justice counters ressentiment. Here, where the time of the event is not measured in advance, we are alive in a sociality as yet unscripted, a black sociality, as Moten might say. Yes, we are owed, yes, we owe, but we have somewhere else to go, somewhere else to be. The feeling of power, the force of will, moves the event, and with it, we are moved. Being moved does not mean being happy. In affirmation, we are not in the midst of a simple acquiescence. Affirmation is not about following along. A culture of affirmation socially, collectively, makes its own path, and it does not bray: its noises are not so easily parsed as positive or negative, not so easily po- sitioned or understood. In a culture of affirmation there are screams, there are squeaks and moans. There is the unmitigated noise of ecologies under destruction, the silence of the missing bees, the pounding heat of too many untreed sidewalks. There is also love, and laughter.
A culture of affirmation does not seek to contain these sounds. It rec- ognizes that they orient more than they position, and it allows them to do so. How the orientation happens depends on the minor gestures. Minor gestures inflect the event toward a different sounding. Not happier or sad- der, but more actively joyful in the ethological Spinozist sense: more-than.