Writing about Nietzsche’s alignment of joy to tragedy, Deleuze asks:
Can everything become an object of affirmation, that is to say of joy? We must find, for each thing in turn, the special means by which it is affirmed, by which it ceases to be negative. The tragic is not to be found in this anguish or disgust, nor in a nostalgia for lost unity. The tragic is
only to be found in multiplicity, in the diversity of affirmation as such. What defines the tragic is the joy of multiplicity, plural joy. This joy is not the result of a sublimation, a purging, a compensation, a resignation or a reconciliation. (2002: 16)
For Nietzsche, joy is tragic. It is tragic in that it cannot be contained, cannot be categorized in advance. Joy is tragic in the sense that it does not find its limit in the it is. “It is joy that is tragic. But this means that tragedy is imme- diately joyful, that it only calls forth the fear and pity of the obtuse specta- tor, the pathological and moralizing listener who counts on it to ensure the proper functioning of his moral sublimations and medical purgings” (2002: 16). Joy: the active dramatization, in the event, of the more-than.
Joy is tragic in Nietzsche because it touches on the most sensitive nerve, sparking the event toward a transformation that is often painful, and always jarring. Joy is tragic because it touches at the limit where life is most un- bearable, exposing life’s inexhaustible vitality. Joy is tragic because it does not hide from death and destruction, because it still says yes! in the face of that which most terrifies. It says yes! (and is thus tragic) not because it wants to carry the burden but because it refuses to be passively trans- formed by a silence that would render it complicit with the nostalgia for the what was.
Saying Yes to life even in its strangest and most painful episodes, the will to life rejoicing in its own inexhaustible vitality even as it witnesses the destruction of its greatest heroes—that is what I called Dionysian, that is what I guessed to be the bridge to the psychology of the tragic poet. Not in order to be liberated from terror and pity, not in order to purge oneself of a dangerous affect by its vehement discharge—which is how Aristotle understood tragedy—but in order to celebrate oneself the eternal joy of becoming, beyond all terror and pity—that tragic joy included even joy in destruction. (Nietzsche 2008: 5)
Another word for the tragic Deleuze uses is “dramatization.” The way the event activates the field of relation can be thought of as a dramatization of that field. How the will to power acts dramatizes the stakes, in the event, of the occasion’s coming-to-be. Each activation, each act, is dramatic in that it lays claim to having become in just this way. “Nietzsche creates his own method: dramatic, typological and differential” (Deleuze 2002: 197).
The will to power, the feeling of power, dramatizes the stakes of the event.
“What do you will?” Ariadne asks Dionysus. What a will wants—this is the latent content of the corresponding thing. We must not be de- ceived by the expression: what the will wants. What a will wants is not an object, an objective or an end. Ends and objects, even motives, are still symptoms. What a will wants, depending on its quality, is to affirm its difference or to deny what differs. Only qualities are ever willed: the heavy, the light. . . . What a will wants is always its own quality and the quality of the corresponding forces. (Deleuze 2002: 78)
Dramatization is the operation through which a will affirms itself. What dramatization does is reveal the dynamic nature of the field of relation. Dramatization is the motor of differentiation. It is what moves the event toward its pragmatic singularization, asking not “what is” but “in which case, who, how, how much?” (Deleuze 2002: 101). “What are the forces which take hold of a given thing, what is the will that possesses it? Which one is expressed, manifested and even hidden in it?” (Deleuze 2002: 77).
This “tragic method” is tragic because it does not know in advance how difference will be affirmed. It is joyful because it activates an eternal mo- bility, a mobility alive with difference: the eternal return, a spiraling that never eats its tail.
A culture of affirmation is always spiraling, always reconnecting to a return that does not seek resemblance. When Nietzsche calls it the eternal return of the same, he does not mean the self-same. What returns is not the it is, but the what else. For the what else to return, a motor must make the event operational. This motor is necessity, as affirmed of chance. “Necessity is affirmed of chance in exactly the sense that being is affirmed of becoming and unity is affirmed of multiplicity” (Deleuze 2002: 26). Necessity funnels experience toward the points of inflection (the minor gestures) that tune the event, giving it its color, its tone, its shape. Affirmation creates the con- ditions for necessity and the will to power mobilizes necessity through the yes! of joy, activating the quality in the event. The eternal return then makes time for the event’s unfolding, just this way.
The spiral, the eternal return, is how the event activates the being in becoming. This is why Nietzsche speaks of the eternal return in terms of selection. The eternal return is the parsing mechanism that gives time, that creates the time of the event. The eternal return gives rhythm to the in-act, tuning it not to a measure so much as to a cadence. For what returns is always more quality than quantity. What returns is not metric time, but the feeling of time, the feeling of power. When a selection happens that creates
this or that occasion of experience, and when this selection is affirmed by the will to power, time spirals. Affirmation is a becoming-active precisely in its affirmation of time in its spiraling return. It is this tuning to time in its difference that preserves affirmation’s untimeliness. All of this “at once moment and cycle of time” (Deleuze 2002: 25). This is the eternal return: the double affirmation that at one and the same moment—in the cycle of time of its immanent invention—activates and contemplates the action. “Eternal return is the distinct return of the outward movement, the distinct contemplation of the action, but also the return of the outward movement itself and the return of the action” (Deleuze 2002: 25).
The eternal return is a synthesis, but nothing like a dialectical one. It is, as Deleuze writes, “a synthesis of time and its dimensions, a synthesis of diversity and its reproduction, a synthesis of becoming and the being which is affirmed in becoming, a synthesis of double affirmation” (2002: 48). The eternal return is active in each moment. “Returning is everything but everything is affirmed in a single moment” (Deleuze 2002: 72).