The figure of the student is a good starting point for thinking debt. Moten and Harney write: “Credit pursues the student, offering to match credit for debt, until enough debts and enough credits have piled up. But the student has a habit, a bad habit. She studies. She studies but she does not learn. If she learned they could measure her progress, establish her attributes, give her credit. But the student keeps studying, keeps planning to study, keeps running to study, keeps studying a plan, keeps elaborating a debt. The student does not intend to pay” (2013: 62). She studies. She learns for learning’s sake. She learns beyond credit. She learns to forget. She learns by heart, beyond the page. She takes the risk of knowing differently. She cannot pay because she will never have stopped studying, will never have stopped inventing what it means to study.
She is a fugitive public. Fugitive because she keeps bad debts, fugitive because she does not begin her encounter by identifying herself. Fugi- tive because she is unrecognizable. Only the credited are known to us, for they are the private individuals, the counted ones. She is beyond count, beyond position. She’s too busy moving to where the studying takes her. She is of the undercommons, the fragile net that sometimes grows around her, the place where debts are gathered and shared, but never paid off. The undercommons is not a community, and nor is the fugitive public. Tem-
porary, uneasy, surprising, these are emergent collectivities that become- active in the untimeliness of an eternal return. For they are always there, and always new.
Fugitive publics do not need to be restored. They need to be conserved, which is to say moved, hidden, restarted with the same joke, the same story, always elsewhere than where the long arm of the creditor seeks them, conserved from restoration, beyond justice, beyond law, in bad country, in bad debt. They are planned when they are least expected, planned when they don’t follow the process, planned when they escape policy, evade governance, forget themselves, remember themselves, have no need of being forgiven. They are not wrong though they are not, finally, communities; they are debtors at distance, bad debtors, for- gotten but never forgiven. (Moten and Harney 2013: 64)
Fugitive publics do not wait for a space to present itself for their gather- ing. They invent the spacetimes of study’s composition. They invent the university.
They study without an end, play without a pause, rebel without a policy, conserve without a patrimony. They study in the university and the university forces them under, relegates them to the state of those without interests, without credit, without debt that bears interest, that earns credits. They never graduate. They just ain’t ready. They’re build- ing something in there, something down there. Mutual debt, debt un- payable, debt unbounded, debt unconsolidated, debt to each other in a study group, to others in a nurses’ room, to others in a barber shop, to others in a squat, a dump, a woods, a bed, an embrace. . . . And in the un- dercommons of the university they meet to elaborate their debt without credit, their debt without count, without interest, without repayment. Here they meet those others who dwell in a different compulsion, in the same debt, a distance, forgetting, remembered again but only after. (2013: 67–68)
Study does not evaluate from outside its process. It values in the doing. Its plan involves creating conditions for an encounter that has not precho- reographed what it can do. “But if you listen to them they will tell you: we will not handle credit, and we cannot handle debt, debt flows through us, and there’s no time to tell you everything, so much bad debt, so much to forget and remember again. But if we listen to them they will say: come let’s plan something together. And that’s what we’re going to do” (2013: 68).
This planning does not work from the perspective of the ressentiment-clad it could be. It could be is too passive. Study affirms, and in the affirmation it asks not what could we do, but how do we do, how else do we do. Planning in the undercommons is the setting into place of techniques that open the event to its more-than, the setting into place of conditions through which the minor gesture expresses itself, tuning the event to its potential. The planning in the undercommons, the planning in the event—this is affirma- tion. This is not policy-making. This planning is the creating of techniques for worlds to come. It is planning as affirmation, planning that does not set apart the field of action from the welling event, planning that does not rely on either/or but moves instead at the speed of the eternal return.