Affirmation is activist philosophy. It doesn’t believe in one speed. It doesn’t see the in-act only as purposeful activity. Nor does it prioritize a smooth process. It sees activity as rhythm. Affirmation operates at the differential where rhythms co-compose. Cutting across refrains in the making, affir- mation intensifies. This intensification is a “becoming-active personified,” a becoming-active that acts from the perspective of the in-act itself. From the perspective of the in-act is another way to say from the perspective of individuation. Individuation is the operational flow of a process. Affir- mation cuts into individuation. The cutting affects the process, activating what Simondon calls a dephasing. The dephasing is how the individuation personifies. It is how the individuation makes its conditions of existence known. The dephasing creates the conditions for quality to become felt as such. In the transduction that ensues—the shift in level that creates a new process—the process’s differential comes to the fore. Key to affirmation is this dephasing of the in-act, the differential rhythm that activates a new process. Each dephasing opens the way for a new qualitative field, and it is this qualitative difference that affirmation affirms.
The question of the in-act, of activist philosophy, of the becoming- active, is tied to quality-as-difference. Quality as difference is opposed to quality that succumbs too quickly to measure. Such quality is in the ser- vice of quantity: it serves only to qualify the it is. When quality is perceived only from the perspective of what can be measured, quality is limited to the pregiven realm of what can be accounted for in advance. This is apparent in stereotyping. When we speak, for instance, of the litheness of a dancer, the assumption is that all dancers are lithe. Quality is here more a framing
device than an open orientation. The quality of litheness is held together by the preestablished notion not only of what a dancer is, but also of what litheness means in the context of a body predisposed to dancing. Litheness becomes a way of reifying the allure of a dancing body, thereby reducing both litheness and the dancing body to a set of predictable figures (thin- ness, able-bodiedness, youth). This puts quality at the service of quantity, limiting the force both of what the dancing body can do and how litheness might correspond to this doing. There are of course an infinity of ways this relation could play out, beyond measure, beyond stereotype. But for this to happen, quality would have to be affirmed beyond its relation to form. Form would have to become the afterthought of how quality lands, this time, this way. Quality as activated in the affirmation is not yet contained by a preexisting relation. The quality of affirmation is beyond measure. It operates, it tunes and attunes, it orients, but it does not set up the frame in advance. Litheness without a subject takes on a completely different sense, opening itself to an emergent shaping that does not yet know how to take hold, how to become-form. The dancing body is invented in affirmation, not reified.
Stereotype tunes quality to a becoming-reactive. We know in advance what the black body, the female body, the animal body can do. We attribute quality to form, and even as we tell ourselves that we are open to variation, the pull of the established relation between the quality and the measure directs our perception. What was is a powerful lure.
Becoming-active does not ignore inheritance. It sees it elsewhere—not in the it was, but in the planning of the not-yet. It creates value in the mov- ing. It proceduralizes. It evaluates from the perspective of the event’s neces- sity, activated by the pulse of affirmation that opens the event to its quali- tative difference. Affirmation is a qualitative valuation that alters the field. Because its will to power is active and not reactive, it never works against. Against would reorder the event into parts, staging one set of conditions for experience against the other. Affirmation does not stage—it fields. This fielding, as mentioned above, is before all else a tuning of affective tonality. This willing feeling, felt in the event, colors experience. There is no sense here of an external purview.
Quality-as-difference is allied, in Nietzsche, with transmutation. Trans- mutation is the process through which the field values difference. Like transduction, it involves a singularization of the field that reorients it. Transmutation, also called transvaluation, involves “a change of quality in the will to power” (Deleuze 2002: 175). This technique, in the event,
is what allows the stakes of the event to express themselves. This creates new values, values that exceed use-value, values that have not yet invented their use. They don’t yet know what they owe. “Values and their value no longer derive from the negative, but from affirmation as such. In place of a depreciated life we have life which is affirmed—and the expression ‘in place of ’ is still incorrect. It is the place itself which changes, there is no longer any place for another world. The element of values changes place and nature, the value of values changes its principle and the whole of eval- uation changes character” (Deleuze 2002: 175).
Affirmation can no more be “in place of” than it can be quantified. Always without credit, it never knows where it will land, or what its debt will be. Once affirmation takes over, what is left is not reactivity, but risk— the risk of the not-yet, of not knowing, of not even knowing how to know. Study is all we have—the curious exploration of what the in-act can do. This is activist philosophy.