Beyond interpretation means beyond an analysis that would seek to mea- sure only according to the given. Evaluative judgment is too content with the it is, too sure in advance of what the stakes are. Between an incipient valuation and judgment-oriented evaluation, two kinds of truth are at work. One is a truth that puts its faith in the past and feels accountable to that past. A process of excavation is often necessary to reveal it. This pro- cess of excavation, directed as it is toward a unifying event, is perilously close to what creates ressentiment in Nietzsche’s last men, for it is concerned first and foremost with what was. In a gesture similar to that of the nostalgic harking back that breeds a lackluster relationship to the affirmation of life in the making, this excavation of the past relies on the belief that the truth will forever stay the same. The work of the excavator is to build resistant tunnels into the past so that this unwavering truth can easily be reached. Life is attended to in reverse, with the past as the barometer for the pres- ent. The second kind of truth, allied to Deleuze’s concept of the power of the false, is serial. Here narration is mutational and the posture is less the crawl down the tunnel than the Nietzschean leap from peak to peak. “Narration is constantly being completely modified . . . not according to subjective variations, but as a consequence of disconnected places and de- chronologized moments” (Deleuze 1989: 133). Time serially folding onto itself in an eternal return of difference.
These two truths are often at battle in therapeutic settings. Take the ex- ample of childhood abuse returned to later in life. One ubiquitous tech- nique is to dig into the past to find the truth of the event. This technique aims to site the originary event as the cut after which everything changed. The therapy builds its narrative around this cut, returning to it as the symp- tom of all that follows. The tunnel becomes a regular passageway as mem- ory becomes more and more stabilized. Cause-effect scenarios are inevi- table here where the light is dim and the paths are straight. The problem is that knowing the truth of the event is rarely much help in alleviating the pain. This is why schizoanalysis takes a different approach, allying itself not to the excavation of truth and with it the thickening of the solitary tunnel walls, but to a collective architecting of mobility that is capable of creating new encounters with life-living. Schizoanalysis does not deny the past but nor does it seek to perseveratively return to it. Instead, it seeks modes of encounter that allow the narration to mutate, to fabulate.
Fabulations are lively with the power of the false. They distance them- selves from the truth of first principles (including first cuts). They do so not to discount the pain and the horror of the abuse but to invest in the collective exploration of what life can be, here, now. For they recognize that what is most likely causing the unbearable pain is not only the truth of this “first” cut, but the myriad imperceptible cuts that followed and are still following, cuts that complicate the narration of the event precisely because the event is continuing and the life that is growing around it is changing. The excavation of a truth that would live in a past that could be located cannot account for these thousands of subsequent variations on the pain, variations that pass by almost imperceptibly but nonetheless deeply alter the color of experience. Nor can they account for the ways the variations may have included glimpses of other affective tonalities. The pain that is felt might also be more-than what it seems, including contrasts open to potentials too ineffable to articulate. Attuned to these incipient variations, to these minor gestures, techniques of schizoanalysis refrain from settling back into the what was not because they seek to ignore what happened but because the ecologies of experience that co-compose with life-living have already radically changed the stakes of what was. To affirm life-living is to affirm the difference that settles itself into life through these minor variations. What emerges from this affirmative stance is not a denial of the abuse, but a technique for composing with the complex patterns of a life capable of including more than one truth: valuation of life-living necessar- ily means growing truths for life. These truths, alive in the interstices of the
imperceptible, are now recognized for the difference they make as incipient tendencies toward a different kind of accounting.
Truths-in-the-making are fabulations: they are affirmative intercessors into the everyday that come alive at the interstices where narration com- poses with the ineffable. These truths, these fabulations, are too often si- lenced by the “first” cut which holds the power to create a tight circle that only leads us back to one narrative, to one way of accounting for experi- ence. Fabulation tells life differently. Beyond interpretation.
What the force of fabulation draws out, what it makes felt, is that there was not really a “first” cut. This “first” cut was just the most intensive of the myriad cuts that propel experience. It may be the cut that mattered most, in retrospect, but has its mattering too forcefully backgrounded the ecological nature of experience? Has it silenced the minor gestures that choreograph life-living? When the first is transduced into the myriad, when the ecology of practices is foregrounded and the event opens itself to the not-yet of ex- perience in the making, there may be the potential of a shift that, while not denying the horrors, perceives the more-than that was always also alive in the cut. This more-than may be the motor for another kind of refrain. A refrain that honors the horror, but this time in the tragic joy of a dramati- zation that affirms difference. Schizoanalysis.
Cuts orient process. They dramatize it. When the dramatization is al- lied to the power of the false, a new contour emerges that undoes the cut of its hold on the what was. “A new status of narration follows from this: narration ceases to be truthful, that is, to claim to be true, and becomes fundamentally falsifying. This is not at all a case of ‘each has its own truth,’ a variability of content. It is a power of the false which replaces and super- sedes the form of the true, because it poses the simultaneity of incompos- sible presents, or the coexistence of not-necessarily true pasts” (Deleuze 1989: 131). This qualitative shift in the way narrative understands itself tunes truth toward a rhythm of serial complexity that brings to the fore the “un- decidable alternatives and differences between the true and the false, and thereby imposes a power of the false as adequate to time, in contrast to any form of the true which would control time” (1989: 132). The mutational rhythm this incites makes felt how the field moves, moved not only by what is known, but also, and even especially, by what cannot yet be known. The power of the false is an intercessor into the field of expression that makes it uneasy, that pushes it to its limit. It is not a lie—that would be too simple. It is the ineffable, the unknowable at the core of the what if as experimented
in what else’s fabulations. “Beyond the true or the false, becoming as power of the false” (Deleuze 1989: 275).
Deleuze connects the will to power with the power of the false. “The other quality of the will to power is a power through which willing is ad- equate to the whole of life, a higher power of the false, a quality through which the whole of life and its particularity is affirmed and has become active” (2002: 185). It is through the power of the false that another kind of valuing is set into motion. “To affirm is still to evaluate, but to evaluate from the perspective of a will which enjoys its own difference in life instead of suffering the pains of the opposition to this life that it has itself inspired” (2002: 185). The power of the false does not offset responsibility—it reori- ents it toward the ability, in the not-yet, to respond from the perspective of the event’s own unfolding. “To affirm is not to take responsibility for, to take on the burden of what is, but to release, to set free what lives. To af- firm is to unburden: not to load life with the weight of higher values, but to create new values which are those of life, which make life light and active. There is creation, properly speaking, only insofar as we make use of excess in order to invent new forms of life rather than separating life from what it can do” (2002: 185).
With the power of the false, no reorients itself and develops a new rela- tionship to the yes! of affirmation. No longer its adversary, no now becomes another kind of limit, an affirmative limit that refuses to choreograph ex- perience according to preexisting narratives of truth, of debt, of credit. No becomes a new kind of truth in the making. No! Not the what was!