Every time affirmation creates new forms of value, an undercommons is potentialized. This undercommons is less form than force. The undercom- mons: a field of relation fabulated at the interstices of the now and the not-yet.
The undercommons is alive with minor gestures. But like the minor ges- tures, the undercommons also often remains on the edges of impercepti- bility. Grand gestures overshadow it.
Grand gestures operate within the bounds of the possible. They mobi- lize around the solidity of narratives already composed. These grand ges- tures, as mentioned in the introduction, are often seen as the site where true political change occurs, but in fact the grand gesture only upholds the
status quo. Unlike the minor gesture, which unsettles the field through its affirmation of difference, the grand gesture choreographs the field around a truth that seeks to justify the it is.
Our world is replete with grand gestures. These gestures have as their goal to rally the masses into a common truth. Take the example of Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s grand gesture of reconciliation to the First Na- tions about the residential school system. In the name of the Canadian government, his speech reads:
To the approximately 80,000 living former students, and all family members and communities, the Government of Canada now recognizes that it was wrong to forcibly remove children from their homes and we apologize for having done this. We now recognize that it was wrong to separate children from rich and vibrant cultures and traditions, that it created a void in many lives and communities, and we apologize for having done this. We now recognize that, in separating children from their families, we undermined the ability of many to adequately parent their own children and sowed the seeds for generations to follow, and we apologize for having done this. We now recognize that, far too often, these institutions gave rise to abuse or neglect and were inadequately controlled, and we apologize for failing to protect you. Not only did you suffer these abuses as children, but as you became parents, you were powerless to protect your own children from suffering the same experi- ence, and for this we are sorry.
The burden of this experience has been on your shoulders for far too long. The burden is properly ours as a Government, and as a country. There is no place in Canada for the attitudes that inspired the Indian Residential Schools system to ever prevail again. You have been work- ing on recovering from this experience for a long time and in a very real sense, we are now joining you on this journey. The Government of Canada sincerely apologizes and asks the forgiveness of the Aboriginal peoples of this country for failing them so profoundly.4
This statement of reconciliation, in its acknowledgment of the unspeakable suffering of the First Nations, outlines the responsibility of all Canadians in the forced sequestering of children into Indian Residential Schools and acknowledges the irreparable pain that caused.5 It also acknowledges the failure of the nation-state to give reparations to the First Nations. In all of these ways, it speaks the truth. But what does this truth do other than re-
stratify the uneven relations between the First Nations and those who have the power to apologize? And whose truth is it?
The gesture of reconciliation claims to give voice to the Indigenous people. Through the reconciliatory rhetoric, Harper asks forgiveness in the name of Canadians. He claims to recognize that there are ongoing effects of what amounts to cultural genocide. But what does the act actually give voice to? What does it mobilize? What work does this grand gesture do other than get us, we the ones who stand firmly on the side of nonvictims in the indigenous context, off the hook? For doesn’t it simply once again set the stage into two camps—those who have the power to speak, and those who must listen (and forgive)? Doesn’t this grand narrative that puts the abuses in the past risk silencing the indigenous, for whom the either/or op- tion of forgiveness may just not be an option, especially given the context of ongoing practices of colonization?
There is the grand gesture of reconciliation, and then of course there are the minor gestures that push through the process and move it in ways unchoreographed. The Truth and Reconciliation hearings, by all accounts, were replete with such minor gestures. Many First Nations people who tes- tified speak of the healing that ensued from the act of sharing. Vincent Yel- low Old Woman puts it this way: “Now that we’ve acknowledged it, we’re beginning to deal with it. And then we can work together on how to move forward.”6 But what changes in the process does not change thanks to the grand gesture. What changes does so because another movement begins to affect the field, a movement harder to pinpoint, a movement less allied to the either/or, good/evil narrative of Harper’s speech. It does so because it acknowledges that reconciliation means an infinity of things in the con- text of colonization, many of these impossible to account for, impossible to count. No grand gesture can settle the score. There is no simple “first” cut that can be magically healed. The conditions can only be shifted through minor gestures that make the field more pliable, more fertile for the sort of planning Moten and Harney see as key to the undercommons.
Planning and fabulation are inextricably linked. In a pull to a futurity active in a time too cyclic to narrate vertically across linear time, fabulation energizes the past, retelling pastness at those junctures that connect it to the ineffable not-yet. It speaks in the between of what is usually considered important and retells stories from perspectives that make felt the complex- ity of the ecologies operative in the inheritances that carry us forward. It recognizes that something else is at stake here, another kind of power. Plan-
ning takes this power, this power of the false, and moves it in a direction as yet unqualified. What is planned in the undercommons of fabulation are the conditions for an action as yet unmappable. For inheritance as lived from the perspective of the undercommons brings past and future into a mobile coexistence. No history only knows itself from one perspective, and no history writes itself without fabulation. Fabulation activates, in the his- torical record yet to be mobilized, again, the force of deviation within the strands of how experience accounts for itself.
Despite its splash, the grand gesture of reconciliation in the end cannot open up experience to the force of its ineffability because it does not make way for a fabulation that could expose it to these activating deviations. In- stead, it reduces the field to the either/or scenario of acceptance or denial, firmly positioning power stakes that continue unaltered. Experience is contained: “If I tell you I am sorry, then surely you must accept my apol- ogy, and now we can get on with things. If not, that’s your choice—I’ve done what I can.” But what of the thousands of fissures, complex and un- timely, that make up our collective experience? What of the truths that have grown and mutated over the years of our collective experience? What if we began there, in the complexity, in the proliferation? How else could we proceed without reducing experience to its common denominator? How else could we consider healing without asking you, the victim, to reconcile yourself to our uneasy continued complicity? How else could we collectively invent modes of existence without reducing experience to that first wound that has already been worried enough? First Nations have been clear: self-determination is the recognition they require, on their terms, in their way. It is not for us to excavate their past. It is for them to create their future.7
I am not saying the apology is worthless. It was high time for it. I am just saying that the politics of reconciliation are mired in reactivity. This has become starkly apparent in the Canadian context. How else to under- stand the Harper government’s studied disinterest in the continued dis- appearance and murder of Indigenous women? Over the past thirty years more than twelve hundred Indigenous women have gone missing in Can- ada. Indigenous women are three times more likely to experience violence than non-Indigenous women. The Harper government’s response: it’s not a systemic racial issue, but simply a criminal one. The grand gesture has been done, he seems to be saying—isn’t that enough?8
I am wary of the grand gesture, wary of how it seeks to choreograph the field, wary of how it cements the narrative of the it is in its alignment with
the what was. What the grand gesture does, it seems to me, is further solid- ify the becoming-reactive on both ends. The victim, who has been haunted by the what was, must now be content, forever more, with the it is. “Get on with it!” reconciliation announces. “We’ve paid our debt! You are again in our debt, the cycle of credit healthy once more.”
I am not alone in my wariness. The First Nations listened to the apol- ogy, recognized the debt, acknowledged it, but refused the credit.9 Instead they continued the mobilizations that have become part of the activism of indigenous necessity, and they made themselves heard, again (we have never been good at listening). The power of the false, it turns out, was alive and well within Indigenous communities, vivid in the fabulations passed from generation to generation in the oral histories that are there not only to weave the traces of the past into the present, but to turn time on itself. With the force of fabulation as the motor, new stories were generated and shared, and with them a process of emergent planning was born. Idle No More was born.10