This book begins in a minor key and works to create a field of resonance for the minor. It does so through the concept of the minor gesture. The minor gesture, allied to Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari’s concept of the minor, is the gestural force that opens experience to its potential variation. It does this from within experience itself, activating a shift in tone, a difference in quality.
A minor key is always interlaced with major keys—the minor works the major from within. What must be remembered is this: neither the minor nor the major is fixed in advance. The major is a structural tendency that organizes itself according to predetermined definitions of value. The minor is a force that courses through it, unmooring its structural integrity, prob- lematizing its normative standards. The unwavering belief in the major as the site where events occur, where events make a difference, is based on ac- cepted accounts of what registers as change as well as existing parameters for gauging the value of that change.1 Yet while the grand gestures of a macro- politics most easily sum up the changes that occurred to alter the field, it is the minoritarian tendencies that initiate the subtle shifts that created the conditions for this, and any change. The grand is given the status it has not because it is where the transformative power lies, but because it is easier to identify major shifts than to catalogue the nuanced rhythms of the minor. As a result, these rhythms are narrated as secondary, or even negligible.
The minor is a continual variation on experience. It has a mobility not given to the major: its rhythms are not controlled by a preexisting struc- ture, but open to flux. In variation is in change, indeterminate. But inde- terminacy, because of its wildness, is often seen as unrigorous, flimsy, its lack of solidity mistaken for a lack of consistency. The minor thus gets cast aside, overlooked, or forgotten in the interplay of major chords. This is the
downside of the minor, but also its strength: that it does not have the full force of a preexisting status, of a given structure, of a predetermined met- ric, to keep it alive. It is out of time, untimely, rhythmically inventing its own pulse.
The minor isn’t known in advance. It never reproduces itself in its own image. Each minor gesture is singularly connected to the event at hand, immanent to the in-act. This makes it pragmatic. But the minor gesture also exceeds the bounds of the event, touching on the ineffable quality of its more-than. This makes it speculative. The minor gesture works in the mode of speculative pragmatism. From a speculatively pragmatic stance, it invents its own value, a value as ephemeral as it is mobile. This permeabil- ity tends to make it ungraspable, and often unrecognizable: it is no doubt difficult to value that which has little perceptible form, that which has not yet quite been invented, let alone defined. And so the minor gesture often goes by unperceived, its improvisational threads of variability overlooked, despite their being in our midst. There is no question that the minor is precarious.
And yet the minor gesture is everywhere, all the time. Despite its pre- carity, it resurfaces punctually, claiming not space as such, but space- of-variation. The minor invents new forms of existence, and with them, in them, we come to be. These temporary forms of life travel across the everyday, making untimely existing political structures, activating new modes of perception, inventing languages that speak in the interstices of major tongues. The minor gesture’s indeterminacy, and even its failure to thrive, is what interests me here. For there is no question, it seems to me, that we put too much credence in that which persists, in the edifices rebuilt daily by technocrats. There must be other ways of living?
In its movement, the minor gesture creates sites of dissonance, staging disturbances that open experience to new modes of expression. In making felt the event’s limit, the operational interval where the event exceeds the sum of its parts, the minor gesture punctually reorients experience. The event here is defined according to a Whiteheadian concept of the actual occasion. Actual occasions are the coming-into-being of indeterminacy where potentiality passes into realization (Whitehead 1978: 29). When speaking of the event’s potentiality, I am lingering on the side of the as- yet-undetermined share of the actual occasion. I am focusing on the phase of realization of the event, of experience, where it has not yet fully become this or that. The minor gesture is active in this indeterminate phase of the event. This is not to underestimate the necessity of an event’s coming to
form. As Alfred North Whitehead emphasizes, it is the event’s atomicity, its capacity to be fully what it is, that ultimately opens the way for the po- tential of what is to come: without atomicity, in an arena of pure becoming, there would be no “elbow room in the universe,” no opening for the dis- junctions through which difference is produced (1967: 195). The empha- sis here is not on the continuity of becoming, an infinitely open account of process, but on the becoming of continuity: process punctuated. The event and the minor gesture are always in co-composition, the minor ges- ture punctuating process, moving the welling event in new and divergent directions that alter the orientation of where the event might otherwise have settled.
By making everything an event, by emphasizing that there is nothing outside of or beyond the event, the aim is to create an account of experi- ence that requires no omnipresence. The event is where experience actual- izes. Experience here is in the tense of life-living, not human life per se, but the more-than human: life at the interstices of experience in the ecology of practices.2 From this vantage point of an ecology of practices, it is urgent to turn away from the notion that it is the human agent, the intentional, volitional subject, who determines what comes to be.3 It is urgent to turn away from the central tenet of neurotypicality, the wide-ranging belief that there is an independence of thought and being attributable above all to the human, a better-than-ness accorded to our neurology (a neurology, it must be said, that reeks of whiteness, and classism). Neurotypicality, as a central but generally unspoken identity politics, frames our idea of which lives are worth fighting for, which lives are worth educating, which lives are worth living, and which lives are worth saving.4
Despite its role as a founding gesture of humanism, of individual- ism, neurotypicality remains for the most part in the background of our everyday lives. Certainly, activists who fight for neurodiversity are very aware of how neurotypicality frames experience. But for the rest of us, neu- rotypicality as such tends to be backgrounded, and so we underestimate both its force and its pervasiveness. Issues that most readily define neuro- typicality as foundational are often seen as given. We pay them little atten- tion: we don’t tend, for instance, to question the abortion of vast numbers of Down syndrome fetuses.5 Or we don’t think of mental illness as on a spectrum with our own neurology. Or we ignore how pervasive it is not to create robust accommodations for difference and rarely organize events with accommodation in mind.6 We don’t concern ourselves with the fact that, too often, people with disabilities, intellectual or physical, are offered
palliative care instead of life-sustaining treatment for diseases.7 We too often see all of these scenarios—if we do see them at all—simply as aspects of existence at this current juncture: they are what they are, and surely they have come to be for a reason.8 Neurotypicality tells us what is in our best interest, and we tend to accept it wholesale. It is for this reason that neuro- typicality as foundational identity politics is rarely named as such. When do we question what we mean by independence, by intelligence, by knowl- edge? When do we honor significantly different bodies and ask what they can do, instead of jumping to the conclusion that they are simply deficient?9 When is the fat body, the immobilized body, the blind body, the deaf body, the old body, the spastic body celebrated? Yours, mine, the life of the autis- tic, still taught in segregated classrooms, yours, mine, the life of the schizo- phrenic, of the psychotic, the depressed, institutionalized and out of sight, yours, mine, the First Nations, disenfranchised by a settler colonialism that refuses to recognize political practices neurodiverse at their core, yours, mine, the drug addict, the drunk, the black man, treated last in the emer- gency ward (if treated at all), yours, mine, the transgender, the transsexual, the gay or lesbian, our rights too rarely recognized as they should be, yours, mine, lives deemed less worthy, less worthy not just because of our visible difference, but because we have already been classed as less-than, as less educable, as less desirable, as less knowledgeable, as less valuable. We have already been situated, aligned in opposition to the dominant ideal of life, to the majoritarian discourse of neurotypicality, and we fall short.
I define this framing of existence as neurotypical not to underestimate other forms of oppression, including racism, classism, sexism. My hope is to underscore the mutual indebtedness of the narrative of neurotypicality and the framing of certain bodies and certain forms of life as less worthy. Take blackness. Neurotypicality, Fred Moten suggests, is another name for antiblackness.10 The neurotypical stages the encounter with life in such a way as to exclude what cannot fit within its order, and blackness, or what Moten describes as “black sociality,” always ultimately exceeds capture.
In a videotaped conversation entitled “Do Black Lives Matter” between himself and Robin D. G. Kelley, Moten speaks of the concept of black so- ciality in the context of the 2014 murders of Michael Brown and Eric Gar- ner.11 He explains:
We need to understand what the state is defending itself from and I think that in this respect, the particular instances of Michael Brown’s murder and Eric Garner’s murder are worth paying some attention to.
Because what the drone, Darren Wilson [the police officer], shot into that day was insurgent Black life walking down the street. I don’t think he meant to violate the individual personhood of Michael Brown, he was shooting at mobile Black sociality walking down the street in a way that he understood implicitly constituted a threat to the order he rep- resents and that he is sworn to protect. Eric Garner on the everyday basis initiated a new alternative kind of marketplace, another mode of social life. That’s what they killed, OK? So when we say that Black lives matter I think what we do sometimes is obscure the fact that it’s in fact Black life that matters. That insurgent Black social life still constitutes a profound threat to the already existing order of things.
Insurgent Black life is neurodiverse through and through. This is its threat, that it cannot be properly regulated, that it exceeds the bounds of the known, that it moves too much—“I don’t need to disavow the no- tion that black people have rhythm.”12 Blackness, life-living, is life at the limit.13 Moten continues: “Antiblackness is antilife. Somewhere along the line black flesh held the responsibility of protecting generativity. . . . Life is Black life. . . . When you say Black life matters, you are saying life mat- ters, and when you say life matters, you are saying Black life matters.” That neurotypicality as founding identity politics discounts black life implies, at the limit, that it discounts all life, all generative force, all unbounded, un- predictable, rhythmic, insurgent life.
Neurodiversity is the path I choose here to explore insurgent life. En- couraged by neurodiversity activism, I take neurodiversity as a platform for political change that fundamentally alters how life is defined, and valued. I do this with the neurodiversity movement’s call in mind: to honor com- plex forms of interdependence and to create modes of encounter for that difference.14 One of the compelling tenets of the movement for neurodiver- sity is that it explicitly calls for social and medical services. Many classical autistics, for instance, cannot live without facilitation. They need assis- tance. And so they not only want to be seen as valuable in their difference, they also want their need for facilitation to be seen as a necessary and hon- ored aspect of social life. The neurodiversity movement celebrates the re- lational force of facilitation broadly defined. This emphasis on relation is central to my discussion of facilitation in chapter 7.
The neurotypical, as real contributor to society and to humanity in general, is strongly paired with a notion of independence understood ac- cording to normative definitions of ability and able-bodiedness framed by
what I call the volition-intentionality-agency triad. Despite several decades of the Disability Act, what Guattari would call “normopathy” continues to rule, not only defining value in terms of normative criteria of functioning, but also reducing the importance of relation by placing facilitation on the side of lack: those who need facilitation demonstrate a lack of intelligence, a lack of will, a lack of agency.15 The neurotypical is the very backbone of a concept of individuality that is absolutely divorced from the idea that re- lation is actually what our worlds are made of. The neurotypical does not need assistance, does not need accommodation, and certainly does not need facilitation. The neurotypical is independent through and through.
The approach I am taking here, in my calling into question the central- ity of neurotypicality as grounding structure for existence as we practice it, might be called schizoanalytic, not because there is an encounter with schizophrenia per se, but because the account involves an engagement with the cleaving of experience. A working definition of schizoanalysis for the purposes of this project might be: the active operation that creates schisms, in an ecology of practices, opening up the event to its potential for a collec- tivity alive with difference. A concept that composes well with the activity of this cleaving is agencement. Agencement, as Guattari writes, is a junction that “secretes [its own] coordinates, [that] can certainly impose connec- tions, but [does] not impose a fixed constraint” (2013: 24). Mobilizing the cleave of the event, its internal schism, agencement foregrounds not the agency of an individual acting on the event, but those very operations that “secrete their own coordinates” in the event, affecting how it comes to ex- pression. A schizoanalytic approach, as I will elaborate in chapter 8, affirms these complex ecologies that could not come into existence without the schisms that radically alter the operational quality of the event.
As the postscript will emphasize, a schizoanalytic approach has a belief in the world. In this sense it is Nietzschean: “Was that life? Well then, once more!” (1954: 157). The world it believes in is a world where to act is an in- herently affirmative gesture that cannot be distinguished from the in-act of the event. What acts at the heart of the event is the minor gesture. This is not to say that the minor gesture is inherently positive, or good. The minor gesture, like schizoanalysis, is operational. It shifts the field, altering the va- lence of what comes to be. It is affirmative in its force, emphatic in its belief. Yet it would be to radically misunderstand the cut of difference to ignore the pull of the tragic, as Nietzsche makes clear in drawing a connection between affirmation and tragedy. This is further developed in the postscript.
Deleuze’s words should also be heeded: “It is not the marginal who create the lines; they install themselves on these lines and make them their property, and this is fine when they have that strange modesty of people of the line, the prudence of the experimenter, but it is a disaster when they slip into a black hole from which they no longer utter anything but the micro- fascist speech of their dependency and their giddiness: ‘We are the avant- garde,’ ‘We are the marginal’” (2007: 139, translation modified). The minor gesture is not the figure of the marginal, though the marginal may carry a special affinity for the minor and wish to compose with it. The minor ges- ture is the force that makes the lines tremble that compose the everyday, the lines, both structural and fragmentary, that articulate how else experi- ence can come to expression. To compose with the minor gesture requires, as Deleuze cautions, the prudence of the experimenter, a prudence awake to the speculative pragmatism at the heart of the welling event. Study and research-creation, both developed in the first chapter, are techniques for experimental prudence, a prudence patient enough to engage with that which experimentation unsettles, a prudence attuned to the force of the in-act. But beware: this is not the prudence of a passive outlier! This is a tentativeness in the act that jumps at the chance to discover what else the event can do. It is a prudence that composes at the edges of the as-yet- unthought in the rhythm of the minor gesture.
The minor gesture is the activator, the carrier, it is the agencement that draws the event into itself. It moves the nonconscious toward the conscious, makes felt the unsayable in the said, brings into resonance field effects otherwise backgrounded in experience. It is the forward-force capable of carrying the affective tonality of nonconscious resonance and moving it toward the articulation, edging into consciousness, of new modes of exis- tence.
This capacity to actualize, at the edge of the virtual where the actual is not-yet, is what makes the minor a gesture: the minor is a gesture insofar as it punctuates the in-act, leading the event elsewhere than toward the gov- ernant fixity of the major, be it the major in the name of normative political structures, of institutional life, of able-bodiedness, of gender conformity, of racial segregation. This book celebrates the fragility and the persistence of the minor gesture, perceiving in it more potential than in the self-directed “I” that stands outside experience and speaks the major languages of the brands of individualism and humanism that frame neurotypicality as the center of being.
THE UNDERCOMMONS