Idle No More did not come out of nowhere. And yet it did. This is the strange thing about affirmation—that it is always wholly new, and always already present, for all time.11 This untimeliness reveals another kind of history than that penned for reconciliation, a history fabulated in the re- telling, invented in the interstices of what cannot yet be spoken, played at the junctures where rules are invented in the event of the game. This we learn from our children whose games morph in the playing, and for whom the art of fabulating is still very much alive. In the midst of the play, in the game whose rules would keep changing on the fly, Idle No More at once revealed itself and was born, inventing its history with the words of the future, receptive, from the moment of its inception, to the cycle of eternal return already so much a part of First Nations culture.12
Idle No More began as teach-ins throughout Saskatchewan in the fall of 2012, sparked by three First Nations women and one non-Native ally. The original aim of Jessica Gordon, Sylvia McAdam, Sheelah McLean, and Nina Wilson was to provide Canadians with information about the im- pending Bill c-45 and its impacts on Aboriginal Rights and Protections. Soon thereafter, Chief Theresa Spence of the Attawapiskat Cree Nation announced that she would add her support to the movement with a hunger strike on Parliament Hill, hoping to also bring attention to the deplorable
housing conditions on her reserve. An undercommons was born—a field without firm limits, an opening for thought, an environment for action of all speeds and slownesses. Its net soon widened. Others began to see their place in it, their nonplace.
From the start Idle No More refused categorical breakdowns based on identity. Its focus was education, forward-thinking, not bloodlines. It was concentrated around Indigenous issues, but it knew the field needed to be everything but either/or. The teach-ins that at first focused on parlia- mentary bills that would continue to erode First Nations sovereignty, that would continue to undo existing environmental protections, soon became teach-ins that included broader issues of Indigenous rights. These teach- ins and the ones they bred truly became study: I felt their effects in my classes, on the street. More people joined, in Canada and beyond. Some walked sixteen hundred kilometers across Canada to protest with Chief Spence and to support the hunger strike she was undertaking based on “a historical survival diet for indigenous communities facing food shortages and land loss in colonial policies” (Simpson 2013).13 Chief Spence hoped to convince Prime Minister Harper and Governor General David John- ston to meet with her to discuss First Nations leadership. She implored the government to have a “nation-to-nation” meeting about the James Bay Treaty (Treaty 9), signed by communities in 1905 and 1906, that prom- ised that the communities would receive benefits that served to balance anything that they were giving.”14 She felt strongly, as did other supporters of Idle No More, that Bill c-45, the Conservative government’s omnibus budget bill, which contained changes to the Navigable Waters Act, includ- ing waterways in First Nations territory, would affect ecological conditions and make it easier to sell reserve land to non-Natives.15 Each one of us who considers themselves an activist became involved, even those among us who didn’t participate in the walk or the teach-ins, recognizing in perhaps a new way that there can be no cause that does not in some way connect to the injustices First Nations have suffered, and continue to suffer. As the website says: “Everyone is invited to join the movement.”16
Idle No More is about the in-act. It is about rhythms of difference that open up experience to its minor gestures. Idle No More began in a move- ment, in a walk, and this walk has refused to stop, despite the fact that the government didn’t listen to the 270 Nishiyuu Walkers who arrived at Par- liament Hill after trekking across Canada in the cold of winter.17 In the end Theresa Spence had to stop her hunger strike because her health was fail- ing. The government still wasn’t listening.
The walk of Idle No More is still creating pockets of undercommons. The point is not to be “faithful” to one particular iteration of Idle No More, but to create with it, to invent how else we can walk, how else we can idle no more. Speculating on the future of Idle No More in March 2013, Leanne Simpson writes:
It’s difficult to say where the movement will go because it is so beau- tifully diverse. I see perhaps a second phase that is going to be on the land. It’s going to be local and it’s going to be people standing up and opposing these large-scale industrial development projects that threaten our existence as Indigenous peoples—in the Ring of Fire [a region in northern Ontario], tar sands, fracking, mining, deforestation. . . . But where they might have done that through policy or through the Envi- ronmental Assessment Act or through legal means in the past, now it may be through direct action. Time will tell.18
Idle No More makes debt social by recognizing that there is no repay- ment that will do justice to the pain. There is no repayment that can abso- lutely undo the effects of environmental degradation, no repayment that can still the history of human suffering in the disenfranchised communi- ties of the Canadian North. There is no way to bring back the families de- stroyed by the residential schools. But there are ways of being rhythmically, differentially in-act, of idling no more and asking, collectively, what else? What else can be imagined? What else can we walk toward, or around, or behind? There is a way to claim the stories, and to continue to write them. There is a way to compose the speech, a speech that would sound very dif- ferent from Harper’s because it knows the way the fissures of experience crowd the surface, it knows about the tricksters and their ability to jump onto the what if and fly with it, it knows about the power of fabulation.
Fabulation, it bears repeating, is not the denial of the truth. It is an- other species altogether, a dramatization born of joy that composes at the limits of experience in the making. Fabulation is true! Absolutely true, in the only register of truth affirmation knows: the pragmatically speculative. Pragmatic because it does what it does, it mobilizes just this way, under just these conditions. And speculative because how it will unfold, what it can do, what else it will be, remains unknowable in advance of the doing.
Fabulation is replete with bad debt, or affirmation without credit. Fabu- lation makes no absolute promises. It does not hold to the what was. Fabu- lation is the language spoken by the fugitive public, the public that does not know its place.
The place of refuge is the place to which you can only owe more and more because there is no creditor, no payment possible. This refuge, this place of bad debt, is what we call the fugitive public. Running through the public and the private, the state and the economy, the fugitive public cannot be known by its bad debt but only by bad debtors. To credi- tors it is just a place where something is wrong, though that something wrong—the invaluable thing, the thing that has no value—is desired. Creditors seek to demolish that place, that project, in order to save the ones who live there from themselves and their lives. . . . But all of a sud- den, the thing credit cannot know, the fugitive thing for which it gets no credit, is inescapable. (Moten and Harney 2013: 61–62)
There is no repayment. Only more: more fabulation, more walking, more debt. “We saw it in a step yesterday, some hips, a smile, the way a hand moved. We heard it in a break, a cut, a lilt, the way the words leapt. We felt it in the way someone saves the best stuff just to give it to you and then it’s gone, given, a debt. They don’t want nothing. You have got to accept it, you have got to accept that. You’re in debt but you can’t give credit because they won’t hold it” (Moten and Harney 2013: 61–62).
Idle No More affirms its debt. It knows the debt it’s owed. But it doesn’t seek credit. It knows credit would only silence it. In its affirmation, it acti- vates the minor, and minor gestures abound. Some of them are immedi- ately captured. There is often exhaustion, dismay. But there is also laughter, and play. “The transition is going to be hard, but from my perspective, from our perspective, having a rich community life and deriving happiness out of authentic relationships with the land and people around you is wonder- ful. I think where Idle No More did pick up on it is with the round dances and with the expression of the joy. ‘Let’s make this fun.’ It was women that brought that joy.”19
The place of refuge feels more livable when we remember that no move- ment, no fugitive public, is held by individuals. It is held by a multiplicity larger than anyone alone, larger than identity. It is held by that round dance in the shopping center that became the image of Idle No More, by a collec- tive gesture infinitely more complex than any individual gesture could be.20 This is what returns: the multiplicity, the ineffability of an exhaustion, of a tragic joy that teaches us new ways of moving, new rhythms for bare activ- ity. For the in-act, like affirmation, is not just about forward movement. In the undercommons, the place we cannot know, movement is before all else quality—it is the affective tonality of a shift in cadence, a barely perceptible
sounding that propels a thought, a lulling that makes us dream and gives us the courage to dance. This is affirmation, a gift without limit.