Affirmation is always more-than-human, always across registers vegetable and mineral, plant and animal. This is why, for Nietzsche, affirmation is not manifested in “man.” Affirmation does not belong to the human, it does not belong to a species. Affirmation cuts across the very idea of species. It conditions openings to the more-than, crafting experimental speciations. For Nietzsche, the figure of the more-than is the Overman. I would rather keep man out of it. What is important about what affirmation can do is that it does not idle in preexisting categories. The figure I seek does not have a predefined form. It is affirmation itself, affirmation as the force
of a becoming.
Being is born of becoming. Affirmation cuts into becoming to create being. This being is always more-than. It is an emergent constellation before it is a form. The field does not begin and end in form: it erupts into form, and then dephases into new processes that create an opening for new deviations. Speciations abound, and with them fugitive publics take form and then move along. Places of refuge grow and are fabulated into new constellations. Undercommons emerge and disappear. When being is born of becoming, the way the event settles has not been choreographed in advance. When being is born of becoming, the deviations of experience have not yet expressed themselves in a form preconstituted. Experience is a univocal force, not a simple unity. It is all that it is, in its full becoming, and always more than one in its full being. Both-and.
Both-and is transvaluing. It is not either/or. It is qualitatively abstract, undefinable in advance, and absolutely what it is when it lands. “Becoming and being are a single affirmation” (Deleuze 2002: 189). This is an affirma- tive book. It accepts affirmation’s mantra: “The whole, yes, universal being, yes, but universal being ought to belong to a single becoming, the whole ought to belong to a single moment” (Deleuze 2002: 72). It builds with the single moment’s capacity to shift the register of the what else. It choreo- graphs with the single moment of the untimeliness of the eternal return. And it recognizes in that single moment the multiplicity of the open whole. The it is what it is is nowhere present.
There is violence here, and to negate the violence would be reactive. Affirmation is tragic. There is no question that the will to power, that the
power of the differential, involves an act that could be called violent. The minor gesture is not immune to that violence. Even the most imperceptible forces of change can have great effects, and those effects can be destructive. Think of the way a tsunami erupts from the most indiscernible activity. Affirmation does not deny the violence. On the contrary, the work of affir- mation involves affirming the violence in order to activate its more-than, in order to make felt what, in violence, can cause the decisive turn, in the event, that opens it to a qualitative difference that really makes a difference. “Thinking is the n-th power of thought. It is still necessary for it to become ‘light,’ ‘affirmative,’ ‘dancing.’ But it will never attain this power if forces do not do violence to it. Violence must be done to it as thought, a power, the force of thinking, must throw it into a becoming-active” (Deleuze 2002: 108). Transmutation, transvaluation, these are potentially violent acts. Change is violent. Thought too cuts, it skews, it reorients. Reorientation is uneasy-making, and it has effects. But this violence heeds a different call than do grand gestures. This is not a violence that replays itself in the same register. It is a violence that opens the way for techniques that create new conditions, conditions propitious for new ways of crossing the threshold that open the event to the what else. The line is fine, of course. Violence turns quickly, and reactivity is always right there, ready to pounce. The po- tential for the event to sway toward destruction is always present, especially when the stakes are so high and the pain is so raw.
There is a call, an appeal, even a demand that is part of a politics of affir- mation, and it is this demand that best counters violence’s capture of the what else in the name of a nihilism that revictimizes. Fred Moten gives a beautiful account of it through the example of Joe McPhee’s playing on Na- tion Time.21 Using the figure of the soloist in the jazz ensemble to challenge the authoritative voice of the univocal speaker, Moten asks,
What if authoritative speech is detached from the notion of a univocal speaker? What if authoritative speech is actually given in the multi- plicity and the multivocality of the demand? This was something that was also happening at that same moment in the music, so that the figure of the soloist was being displaced. Even if the soloist was, in a certain sense, only temporarily occupying a certain kind of sovereign position, the return to collective improvisational practices was sort of saying, “we are making a music which is complex enough and rich enough so that when you listen to it you are hearing multiple voices, multiply formed
voices. We are sort of displacing the centrality of the soloist.” (Moten and Harney 2013: 135–136)
In the multiplicity of the ensemble, the demand becomes an appeal, as Moten says, that opens the field to redefinition. “An appeal, in this deliv- ery—you’re making all this sound, you’re making all this noise. You’re an ensemble, and that’s bound up with that notion of study and sociality that we’ve been talking about” (Moten and Harney 2013: 136). The strength of the demand is its capacity to create a transduction, a transmutation in the field. McPhee “was playing harmonics on the horn, so that the horn itself becomes something other than a single-line instrument; it becomes chordal, social. And that chordal playing shows up for us aurally as screams, as honks, as something that had been coded or denigrated as extramusi- cal—as noise rather than signal. So, what I’m trying to do is to consider this notion of the demand as an appeal, as a claim, where you’re not appeal- ing to the state but appealing to one another” (Moten and Harney 2013: 136). What matters is not just how the sound is being played and how it can be responded to by another player. What matters is the more-than, the way the horn “becomes something other than a single-line instrument,” the way “it becomes chordal, social.” The appeal in the event creates a spe- ciation that shifts not only what the music can do, what the sound can do, but creates an emergent collectivity that cannot be reduced to the sum of its parts.
The appeal is not without its violence, not without its consequences, but it does have the power to counter violence’s reactivity precisely because of its capacity to cut into the event to expose its multiplicity, to activate its emergent collectivity. As Moten writes, placing the question of the appeal in the context of blackness and black politics: “But, what we understand as the social zone of blackness and the undercommons is the zone precisely in which you make that claim—so that the demand is a doublevoiced thing, an enunciation in the interest of more than what it calls for. You are saying what you want, though what you want is more than what you say, at the same time that you are saying what you are while in the guise of what you are not” (Moten and Harney 2013: 138).
This is the work of a politics of affirmation: to create the conditions for another way of saying yes!, for another kind of appeal. This yes! is not the donkey’s bray, it is not the victim’s burden. This yes! is a form of lis- tening that also hears the untimely noises of what cannot be contained in
the words that describe the event. It is the yes! of the fugitive public, that which runs “through the public and the private, the state and the economy,” a public “of strangers not communities, of undercommons not neighbor- hoods, among those who have been there all along from somewhere” (Moten and Harney 2013: 63).
With Nietzsche, with Moten and Harney, with Idle No More, a politics of affirmation makes an appeal that cannot but be heeded. The response to this appeal may be cynical. With cynicism may come critique. And ne- gation. Followed by reconciliation. And identity politics. An affirmative politics will opt against each of these gestures and propose instead a stance that moves with the painful joy that comes with the being born of becom- ing. It will propose a thinking that moves to the nth power of thought, a thinking ecological to its core, that spreads from the middle, where specia- tions have not yet resolved into species. This affirmative politics will walk to the improvised tune of an emergent collectivity, a multiplicity replete with gestures that trouble categories, a multiplicity exuberant with fabula- tions that dance to the power of the false. “We should consider every day lost on which we have not danced at least once. And we should call every truth false which was not accompanied by at least one laugh” (Nietzsche 1977: 332).