1 The Occupy movement is a good example of this. There is no question, it seems to me, that Occupy has had long-lasting effects. It has affected our be- lief in mobilization and has resulted in sustained political work at the local scale. Montreal is a good example of this: not only did we see the largest stu- dent strike in Quebec history in 2012 (the Maple Spring), but the classroom has palpably changed since the end of the strike: students are much more vo- cal about their belief in free education and in their critique of neoliberalism. Almost three years later, demonstrations took over the streets once again in March and April 2015 in the hope of reenlivening debate around austerity mea- sures and free education. While this student strike only lasted a few months, there is a sense that the unrest remains active under the surface. Forums for debate and political organizing abound, not only in the student sector, but among primary school teachers and other public sector unions.
The critique of Occupy is one based on the alignment between politics and the grand gesture. Because the protest was open, because it was lively with minor gestures, because it was capable of morphing, its shape has radically changed in the many iterations it has spawned. When we look at political un- rest today, when we look at emergent collectivity around the world, we see not “Occupy” but what Occupy allowed to proliferate. Occupy set into motion something already in act and gave it the momentum it needed to reinvent itself. This is how a politics of the minor gesture does its work.
2 Throughout the manuscript, as I did with my book Always More Than One (Manning 2013), I toggle between more-than-human and more-than human. For me, the more-than-human is a way of making operative ways of thinking the nonhuman without excising the force of human complicity from these
worldings. When I speak of the more-than human, I am focusing on the realm of the human, emphasizing that the category of the human is always modu- lated and affected by the more-than. In Always More Than One I develop the concept of speciation to account for the intercession of the more-than in what it means to be human. See “Another Regard” in Manning 2013.
3 For more on the ecology of practices, see Stengers 2010, 2011. My own read- ing of an ecology of practices in some ways departs from that of Stengers, for whom the ecology has less to do with an exploration of how environments are relational at their core than with how self-defined practices (such as science and philosophy, in her example) come together while retaining their differ- ence. I find these two approaches compatible in the sense that in both cases the ecology of practices is not straining toward homogeneity, but toward a bringing-into-relation of difference. An ecology of practices activates the rela- tional field at its point of inflection, creating a new composition that is capable of keeping difference alive.
4 This of course also stages an unimpeachable separation between the human and the animal, between the human-oriented environment and the wider non- human ecologies. For works that have influenced my thinking on the subject, see Wolfe 2012 and Massumi 2014.
5 For more information from the National Association for Down Syndrome, see http://www.nads.org. See also Buckley and Bird 1993.
6 The issue of accommodation is always present for people with disabilities, but was particularly apparent during a recent (2014) conference, held at Syracuse University (known internationally for its disability studies program). This con- ference was on disability politics, and yet had not considered several levels of accommodations. For details, see William Peace, “Chronicle of Higher Edu- cation Story Features Me on the Lack of Access at Academic Conferences,” Bad Cripple (blog), June 16, 2014, http://badcripple.blogspot.ca/2014/06
/chronicle-of-higher-education-feature.html, as well as an article penned by William Peace, of Bad Cripple, entitled “Indifference toward Disabled Schol- ars Alarms a Disabilities Scholar,” at http://chronicle.com/ (accessed May 11, 2015). See also Mark Boatman, “William Peace: Scholar, Advocate,” New Mo- bility, the Magazine for Active Wheelchair Users, September 1, 2014, http://www
.newmobility.com/2014/09/william-peace/, and Stephen Kuusisto’s blog Planet of the Blind. On lack of accommodation during a conference, see “Dear Disabled Person, We’re Sorry but You’re a Real Inconvenience, Signed, (Insert Conference Name Here),” Planet of the Blind, February 2, 2014, http://www
.stephenkuusisto.com/uncategorized/dear-disabled-person-were-sorry-but
-youre-a-real-inconvenience-signed-insert-conference-name-here#comment
-103575. On able-bodied blues: “The Able-bodied Blues,” Planet of the Blind, March 7, 2014, http://www.stephenkuusisto.com/uncategorized/the-able
-bodied-blues#comment-103572. Another important arena of accommoda- tion includes sensory accommodations, which are rarely taken into account
despite the way sensory overstimulation affects many people on the spectrum of neurodiversity.
7 For an extreme case, see writing around the death of Tim Bowers, a thirty-two- year-old man who fell out of a tree. The day after his accident, he was taken out of a medical coma and asked to decide whether he wanted his life to be saved or not. He decided not to live. His wife was quoted as saying: “The last thing he wanted was to be in a wheelchair. . . . To have all that stuff taken away would probably be devastating. He would never be able to give hugs, to hold his baby. We made sure he knew that, so he could make a decision. Even if he decided the other thing, the quality of life would’ve been very poor. His life expectancy would be very low.” “Injured Indiana Deer Hunter Chose Death over Paralysis,” Indy Star, November 6, 2013, http://www.indystar.com/article
/20131106/NEWS/311060059/Injured-hunter-chooses-death-over-paralysis
?nclick_check=1. Several disability activists used this example to discuss the way disability is viewed. One of their key arguments was that it was unethical not to have someone present at this meeting who lives with disabilities of the kind Bowers would have had. See, for instance, William Peace, “Loneliness, Autonomy, Fear and Tim Bowers,” Bad Cripple, May 9, 2014, http://badcripple
.blogspot.ca/2014/05/loneliness-autonomy-fear-and-tim-bowers.html.
8 See, for instance, Richard Dawkins’s tweet on Down syndrome (as well as the fallout that followed as disability activists responded). From Dawkins: “Abor- tion & Down Syndrome: An Apology for Letting Slip the Dogs of Twitterwar,” Richard Dawkins Foundation, August 21, 2014, https://richarddawkins.net
/2014/08/abortion-down-syndrome-an-apology-for-letting-slip-the-dogs
-of-twitterwar/. In response: Chris Kaposy, “A Response to Richard Dawkins on Down Syndrome,” Impact Ethics, September 2, 2014, http://impactethics
.ca/2014/09/02/response-to-dawkins/; William Peace, “A Brave New World,”
Bad Cripple, August 24, 2014, http://badcripple.blogspot.ca/2014/08/a-brave
-new-world.html; Sean McGuire, “Richard Dawkins: It’s Immoral to Bring a Down’s Syndrome Child into the World,” My Secret Atheist Blog, August 23, 2014, http://www.mysecretatheistblog.com/2014/08/richard-dawkins-its
-immoral-to-bring.html.
9 Moten and Harney write: “Whom do we mean when we say ‘there’s nothing wrong with us’? The fat ones. The ones who are out of all compass however precisely they are located. The ones who are not conscious when they listen to Les McCann. The Screamers who don’t say much, insolently. The churchgo- ers who value impropriety. The ones who manage to evade self-management in the enclosure. The ones without interest who bring the muted noise and mutant grammar of the new general interest by refusing. The new general intellect extending the long, extra-genetic line of extra-moral obligation to disturb and evade intelligence. Our cousins. All our friends” (2013: 52). This issue comes up often in thought-provoking ways on Dave Hingsburger’s blog, http://davehingsburger.blogspot.ca/ (accessed October 1, 2015).
10 This comment was made by Fred Moten in his review of this manuscript.
11 “Do Black Lives Matter? Robin D.G. Kelley and Fred Moten in Conversation,” https://vimeo.com/116111740 (accessed March 15, 2015). Michael Brown was shot and killed by a police officer, Darren Wilson, on August 9, 2014, in Fer- guson, Missouri. A federal investigation later cleared Wilson. Eric Garner was killed on July 17, 2014, when a police officer put him in a chokehold for fifteen seconds. Caught on tape, the incident clearly demonstrates that Garner is not fighting. Restrained by four police officers, Garner repeats “I can’t breathe” eleven times before he dies, lying face down on the sidewalk. The grand jury ruled it a homicide, and the officer, Daniel Pantaleo, was not indicted. These two events (two of uncountable such events) sparked the Black Lives Matter movement, which has resulted in hundreds of protests and rallies across the United States.
12 “Do Black Lives Matter? Robin D.G. Kelley and Fred Moten in Conversation,” https://vimeo.com/116111740 (accessed March 15, 2015).
13 See, for instance, the chapter entitled “Waltzing the Limit” in Manning 2013.
14 Neurodiversity is not about cure. In the words of autistic John Elder Rob- inson:
To many neurodiversity proponents, talk of “cure” feels like an attack on their very being. They detest those words for the same reason other groups detest talk of “curing gayness” or “passing for white,” and they perceive the accommodation of neurological differences as a similarly charged civil rights issue. If their diversity is part of their makeup they believe it’s their right to be accepted and supported “as-is.” They should not be made into something else—especially against their will—to fit some imagined soci- etal ideal. . . . After many years of struggle it’s against the law to discrimi- nate against someone because of race or faith anywhere in America. Un- fortunately we have not come that far in other areas. It’s still legal to fire someone for being gay in many states. People who act different by virtue of their neurology have no protections other than those general ones afforded under the Americans With Disabilities Act. . . . The task of changing soci- etal attitudes is complicated by the fact that neurological difference is in- visible. . . . We can accept that neurological difference is a natural part of us while still working hard to minimize or eliminate its negative effects. At the same time we should recognize and celebrate the very real benefits differ- ence confers on many of us, and embrace people as they are because that is reality. . . . I believe acceptance of neurodiversity backed up by support for solid research into how we can be our best (least disabled, most productive, etc.) is the most positive position those of us who are different can take. I celebrate all the people who fight for the rights of people who are different, and I look forward to the further fruits of those efforts. Meanwhile, I will use my own differences as I always have—to make a living doing those odd things I do better by virtue of my neurology.
John Elder Robinson, “What Is Neurodiversity,” My Life With Asperger’s
(blog), October 7, 2013, Psychology Today, http://www.psychologytoday.com
/blog/my-life-aspergers/201310/what-is-neurodiversity.
15 Gary Genosko discusses Guattari’s use of this term, initially used by Jean Oury, in Genosko 2002. Guattari thought of normopathy as the most incurable of all diseases.
16 See Deleuze 2005. I also discuss Deleuze’s concept of a life in detail in “Waltz- ing the Limit” in Manning 2013.
17 I discuss procedural architecture in chapter 4. See Arakawa and Gins 2002.
18 An encouraging recent trend that would work against the normalization discussed above is the decision, by many US colleges, to get rid of the sat scores usually necessary in the application to university programs. “Mere- dith Twombly, Hampshire’s dean of admissions and financial aid, says that a college-wide study showed little, if any, correlation between high test scores academic achievement. The tests were eliminated, she says, because they were a ‘very poor predictor of success.’ ‘If we have a success story in a year or two, I fully expect at least a handful of schools to follow us,’ Twombly says, noting that getting rid of test scores will help the admissions office place a higher premium on more meaningful areas of college applications, such as extracur- ricular activities, writing samples and high school gpas.” Justin Peligri, “No, the sat Is Not Required. More Colleges Join Test-Optional Train,” College, USA Today, July 7, 2014, http://college.usatoday.com/2014/07/07/no-the-sat
-is-not-required-more-colleges-join-test-optional-train/.
19 For a thorough exploration of research-creation in its alignment to SenseLab practices, see “Propositions for Thought in the Act” in Manning and Massumi 2014.
20 The SenseLab defines itself as a laboratory for thinking and making that works at the intersection of art, philosophy, and activism. I started it in 2004. It is defined in more detail on its website at http://senselab.ca/wp2/ (accessed June 10, 2015).
21 Autistic Perception is a key concept in Manning 2013. See chapters “Toward a Leaky Sense of Self” and “An Ethics of Language in the Making.”
22 Throughout, when I discuss consciousness, it is usually with an emphasis on the reflective side of consciousness. Bergson makes a distinction between im- mediate consciousness and reflective consciousness. Immediate conscious- ness is closer to the nonconscious as I am using it throughout. It refers to the edge of the nonconscious (where something is felt without a cognitive process taking over). “Awareness” or “field awareness” might be another term for this. In immediate consciousness, representation in language is not yet available. In reflective consciousness, which is closer to consciousness as I am using it, there is a tuning toward cognition and language to represent what is felt. In the citations from Bergson throughout, this distinction is not made, however. I therefore prefer to work with the terms “conscious” and “nonconscious.” This
also facilitates the task of linking Bergson’s work on the feeling of effort to James’s in chapter 6.
23 See “Propositions for the Verge” and the interlude entitled “What Else” in Manning 2013.
24 For current work in the mainstream that makes a similar argument, see Mal- colm Gladwell’s Blink (Gladwell 2006). On the book’s back cover it describes itself as “a book about how we think without thinking, about choices that seem to be made in an instant—in the blink of an eye—that actually aren’t as simple as they seem. . . . Blink reveals that great decision makers aren’t those who process the most information or spend the most time deliberating, but those who have perfected the art of ‘thin-slicing’—filtering the very few fac- tors that matter from an overwhelming number of variables.”
25 Many autistics have argued that person-first language denies the complexity of autism as a way of living, of being in and with the world. For this reason, I never use person-first language (i.e., “person with autism”). Lydia Brown writes:
At the Adult Services Subcommittee’s final meeting last Wednesday, much to do was made about semantic disagreements—“asd individual” versus “individual with asd,” and of course, the dreaded “person with autism” or “person who has autism” versus “autistic person.” These issues of semantics are hot button issues, and rightfully so. . . . When we say “person with au- tism,” we say that it is unfortunate and an accident that a person is Autistic. We affirm that the person has value and worth, and that autism is entirely separate from what gives him or her value and worth. In fact, we are say- ing that autism is detrimental to value and worth as a person, which is why we separate the condition with the word “with” or “has.” Ultimately, what we are saying when we say “person with autism” is that the person would be better off if not Autistic, and that it would have been better if he or she had been born typical. We suppress the individual’s identity as an Autistic person because we are saying that autism is something inherently bad like a disease.
Yet, when we say “Autistic person,” we recognize, affirm, and validate an individual’s identity as an Autistic person. We recognize the value and worth of that individual as an Autistic person—that being Autistic is not a condition absolutely irreconcilable with regarding people as inherently valuable and worth something. We affirm the individual’s potential to grow and mature, to overcome challenges and disability, and to live a meaning- ful life as an Autistic. Ultimately, we are accepting that the individual is dif- ferent from non-Autistic people—and that that’s not a tragedy, and we are showing that we are not afraid or ashamed to recognize that difference.
Lydia Brown, “Identity-First Language,” asan: Autistic Self Advocacy Net- work, http://autisticadvocacy.org/home/about-asan/identity-first-language/ (accessed October 4, 2015).
This is also an issue in the wider context of disability studies activism. Cara Liebowitz explains:
Though person-first language is designed to promote respect, the concept is based on the idea that disability is something negative, something that you shouldn’t want to see. After all, no one tells me that I should call my- self a person with femaleness or a person with Jewishness. I’m a Jewish woman. No one questions that. Yet when I dare to call myself a disabled person, it seems the whole world turns upside down. That’s because gender and re- ligion are seen as neutral, if not positive, characteristics. The idea of sepa- rating the disability from the person stems from the idea that disability is something you should want to have separated from you, like a rotten tooth that needs to be pulled out.
Disability is only negative because society makes it so. For sure, there are negative aspects of my disability. (For the sake of simplicity, I’m focusing solely on my physical disability, which is both the most visible and the most integrated into my being.) Chronic pain and fatigue are no picnic. But for the most part, my disability is just another thread in the tap- estry of my life. Pull it and the whole thing might unravel. Pull it and you might get an ugly hole where something beautiful once was.
Identity-first language is founded upon the idea of the social model of disability. In a nutshell, the social model says that though our impairments (our diagnostic, medical conditions) may limit us in some ways, it is the inaccessibility of society that actually disables us and renders us unable to function. The most basic example is wheelchair accessibility. If I am using my wheelchair and I can’t go to a restaurant because it doesn’t have a ramp, am I disabled by my cerebral palsy or am I disabled by the inaccessibility of the restaurant?
Cara Liebowitz, “I am Disabled: On Identity-First versus People-First Lan- guage,” The Body Is Not an Apology, March 20, 2015, http://thebodyisnot anapology.com/magazine/i-am-disabled-on-identity-first-versus-people-first
-language/ (accessed October 4, 2015).