1 The Social Science and Humanities Research Council, a Canadian govern- ment agency, implemented research-creation as a funding category in 2003. Since then, it has continued to honor its commitment to artists, now making it possible to apply for any large grant with a research-creation project. This has certainly been useful for artists within the academy who had formerly been excluded from applying to large grants (if they didn’t have PhDs), but it has also had the consequence of segregating research from creation, foreground- ing social-science-inflected methodological inquiry over the exploration of how art itself produces knowledge. On the “creation” side, research-creation
as granting category has tended to emphasize industry-oriented knowledge- transfer. What it hasn’t been as capable of assessing (and willing to fund) is the kind of speculative knowledge art is best at producing.
2 I am thinking here of two scenarios, both of which I see in the university set- ting. The first is the general distrust, within studio departments, of practices that have a strong philosophical component. Here, the fear seems to be that the art will be stifled, which does tend to happen when a theoretical model is simply imposed (from outside) onto the art object. Another example of the theory-practice split happens in the wider arena of the humanities, particu- larly where there are interdisciplinary research-creation programs. Here, I observe professors lamenting the lack of clear articulation of a project, wish- ing it had a stronger theoretical backbone, which too often means putting the practice aside in lieu of a more art-historical approach. Neither of these tendencies truly engages with the singularity of research-creation, it seems to me. What I am proposing here is quite different: an approach that takes the art process as generative of thought, and that transversally connects that thought-in-the-act to a writing practice, should the need arise for writing to accompany it.
3 The SenseLab (www.senselab.ca) has been a creative incubator for this kind of thinking for the past decade. At the SenseLab, we engage primarily with the question of how events can be created that open themselves to new forms of collaboration not only between different people, but between different kinds of practices.
4 See also Brian Massumi’s use of the concept in his introduction to Semblance and Event (Massumi 2011).
5 For more on the question of subjectivity understood as generative (active in an ecology of practices), see Guattari 2012.
6 Whitehead writes:
The range of species of living things is very large. It stretches from man- kind throughout all the vertebrates, and the insects, and the barely orga- nized animals which seem like societies of cells, and throughout the varie- ties of vegetable life, and down to the minutest microscopic forms of life. At the lower end of the scale, it is hazardous to draw any sharp distinction between living things and inorganic matter. There are two ways of survey- ing this range of species. One way abstracts from time, and considers the variety of species as illustrating various levels of life. The other way empha- sizes time, by considering the genetic relations of the species one to an- other. The latter way embraces the doctrine of evolution, and interprets the vanishing of species and of sporadically variant individuals, as being due to maladjustment to the environment. This explanation has its measure of truth: it is one of the great generalizations of science. But enthusiasts have so strained its interpretation as to make it explain nothing, by reason of the fact that it explains everything. We hardly ever know the definite character of the struggle which occasioned the disappearance. . . . The importance
of the doctrine of the struggle for existence depends on the assumption that living beings reproduce themselves in sufficient numbers of healthy offspring, and that adaptation to the environment is therefore the only de- cisive factor. This double assumption of prolificness and of healthiness is obviously not always true in particular instances. (1929: 5–7)
7 The use of methodology here raises the issue of the difference between method and methodology. I concur with Whitehead that the line between them is very fine. One need only consider the normative use of the term “methodology” in dissertations and grant applications to become aware that the term is gen- erally conceived not as the reflection on the value of method but as the place- holding of certain disciplinary criteria. I am not saying, of course, that it is not possible to open method to its potential, but my preferred term for this would be “technique,” as technique better emphasizes the necessity for a process to itself define the limits of its actualization.
8 Whitehead also refers to Descartes here. He writes: “But the word ‘feeling,’ as used in these lectures, is even more reminiscent of Descartes. For example: ‘Let it be so; still it is at least quite certain that it seems to me that I see light, that I hear noise and that I feel heat. That cannot be false; properly speaking it is what is in me called feeling (sentire); and used in this precise sense that is no other thing than thinking’” (1978: 65).
9 See “Dancing the Virtual” in Manning 2013.
10 This is apparent in both the art market context and in the academic institution. Artistic trajectories that do not map well on existing “disciplinary” trends are often overlooked, as are scholars whose practices are truly transversal. In my experience, it is quite common in a job interview, for instance, to look upon a scholar’s work with admiration, even while casting aside his or her appli- cation because they are seen not to have the means to adequately fulfill the needs of a given discipline. This always strikes me as odd, given the fact that transdisciplinary thinkers are generally very creative and intelligent, and ex- tremely capable of reorienting themselves where the need surfaces. To turn away transdisciplinary thinkers is to also cast aside the potential for the craft- ing of unexpected links that open the discipline to new areas of investigation.