The register of the minor gesture is always political: in its punctual reori- enting of the event, the minor gesture invents new modes of life-living. It moves through the event, creating a pulse, opening the way for new ten- dencies to emerge, and in the resonances that are awakened, potential for difference looms. This is how I am defining the political: the movement activated, in the event, by a difference in register that awakens new modes of encounter and creates new forms of life-living. Life-living in its usage throughout refuses to privilege this life, this human life, at the expense of different forms and forces of life, even as it recognizes the importance of the punctuality of this singular event we call our life. Life-living is a way of thinking life with and beyond the human, thinking life as more-than- human. Deleuze’s concept of a life resonates strongly here, a life defined in his last ode to living as the flux of liveliness coursing through existence unlimited.16 The conjunction between the minor gesture and life-living is a political ecology that operates on the level of the in-act, asking at every juncture what else life could be. How this singular life-orientation car- ries existence, and where its minor gestures may lead, is always, for me, a political question.
The political opening that lurks here is built of a procedural architecture called the undercommons, a concept coined by Fred Moten and Stefano Harney.17  The undercommons is not a given site, not a place predefined, not even a recognizable enclave we could return to having found it once. The undercommons is an emergent collectivity that is sited in the encoun- ter. Allied to the minor gesture, it is an activator of a tendency more than it is an offering of a commonality. What makes it a commons is not the existing gathering but its speculative presence as an ecology of practices. The undercommons is a tentative holding in place of fragile comings-into- relation, physical and virtual, that create the potential to reorient fields of life-living—a belief in the ineffable and its powers of resistance keep it alive. In Moten and Harney’s reading of the undercommons, the university looms large as a site in need. The academic institution also has a major role to play with respect to the policing of neurotypicality. For this reason, like Moten and Harney, I will first dwell on the example of what an undercom- mons might look like in the context of academia before then opening the undercommons beyond the strictures of the academic institution to what
else study looks like in the everyday.
Neurotypicality involves a hierarchization of knowledge, based as it is on a belief that favors normative forms of instruction and segregates knowl- edge according to accepted ideas of what serves society best. Most accepted approaches to learning assume neurotypicality with regard to processing information, thereby segregating not only neurodiverse learners, but also predefining what counts as knowledge.18
In The Undercommons, Moten and Harney foreground the university as an institutional system that, in the neoliberal economy, thrives on a be- lief that knowledge can be encapsulated and marketed. There is no ques- tion that this tendency has become more marked in the last decades, with funding for the humanities, social sciences, the theoretical sciences, and studio arts (to name only the most obvious examples) continuously under threat due to their so-called uselessness in the economic market- place. With the increased pressure of bringing funds to the university through grant-writing comes the generalization of knowledge and the emphasis on disciplinary framing. The shift looks something like this: in order to get grants, scholars and artists within the university are asked to frame their own work according to perceived use-value (read: grant- value). This tends to hierarchize certain forms of knowledge over others, though these hierarchies can turn around quite quickly, given the mobil- ity of capital. Paired with the increased financial instability of the univer- sity, which leads to fewer positions being created and thus fewer differ- ences within the ranks, this can have the effect of narrowing knowledge to what are perceived to be the needs of the discipline (now redefi d according to granting categories), often acting against the very openings learning can facilitate.
Critique tends to lead the way. Learning is a fragile enterprise that can too easily be sidetracked by the encroachment of what is set up, in ad- vance, as relevant or irrelevant. In the name of critique, this fragility is often framed and deadened through the crafting of questions that already have answers, or whose answers are close at hand, contained within preexisting academic discourse. “The critical academic questions the university, ques- tions the state, questions art, politics, culture. But in the undercommons it is ‘no questions asked’” (Moten and Harney 2013: 38). The mode of cri- tique that operates as an academic trope stifles the very opening through which fragile new modes of existence can come to expression. What if knowledge were not assumed to have a form already? What if we didn’t yet know what needed to be taught, let alone questioned?
The undercommons opens the way for the crafting of problems greater than their solutions. Here I am following Henri Bergson, who suggests that the best problem is the one that opens up an intuitive process, not the one that already carries within itself its fix. A solvable problem was never really a problem, Bergson reminds us. Only when a question is in line with the creation of a problem is it truly operational. Most academic questions are of the solvable, unproblematic sort. What the undercommons seeks are real problems, problems intuited and crafted in the inquiry. Bergson writes:
It is the clarity of the radically new and absolutely simple idea, which catches as it were, an intuition. As we cannot reconstruct it with pre- existing elements, since it has no elements, and as on the other hand, to understand without effort consists in recomposing the new from what is old, our first impulse is to say it is incomprehensible. . . . One must . . . distinguish between the ideas which keep their light for themselves, making it penetrate immediately into their slightest recesses, and those whose radiation is exterior, illuminating a whole region of thought. (2007: 23)
The challenge, as Bergson underscores, involves crafting the conditions not to solve problems, or to resolve questions, but to illuminate regions of thought through which problems-without-solutions can be intuited. Problems “must be given time. The philosopher has not always the pa- tience. How much simpler it is to confine oneself to notions stored up in language!” (2007: 24). The call made by the undercommons is that we re- frain from taking on problems that are already recognizable, available, but work instead, collectively, to invent open problems that bring us together in the mode of active inquiry. We must be careful, though, in doing so, not to create false problems. “False problems are of two sorts, ‘nonexistent problems,’ defined as problems whose very terms contain a confusion of the ‘more’ and the ‘less’; and ‘badly stated’ questions, so defined because their terms represent badly analyzed composites” (Deleuze 1988: 17). False problems, like the questions the undercommons does not ask, bring us up against “an illusion that carries us along, or in which we are immersed, inseparable from our condition” (Deleuze 1988: 20). False problems and badly stated questions maintain the status quo. Academic critique and debate are too often played out at the level of false problems and badly stated questions.
To explore regions of thought that open onto new kinds of problem- atic processes, I begin the book with an account of research-creation. Research-creation is the term given, in Canada, to academic work that is evaluated both for a creative, usually artistic contribution, and a written, more theoretical or philosophical one.19 On the surface, research-creation is a term without much traction, more a funding category than a concep- tual approach. Since 2003, however, when the term came into general us- age in Canada, the SenseLab has taken it on as a problem, asking how the hyphen between research and creation opens up the differential between making and thinking.20 This differential, we argue, needs to be kept alive in its difference—philosophy does not require artistic practice any more than art requires philosophy. Different practices must retain their singularity. At the same time, when they do come together, as with research-creation, it is important to inquire into what the hyphenation does to their singular- ity. We find research-creation to be a fertile field for thinking this coming- into-relation of difference. Problems that arise include: How does a prac- tice that involves making open the way for a different idea of what can be termed knowledge? How is the creation of concepts, in the context of the philosophical, itself a creative process? How can we bring the different reg- isters of art and philosophy, of making-thinking, together in ways that are capable of honoring their difference? In what ways does the hyphen make operational interstitial modes of existence? Here, as we have done at the SenseLab for the past decade, I take research-creation as one of the most lively current modalities, in the academic institution, of problem-making, and I explore how it creates fields of inquiry for reframing how knowl- edge is practiced beyond typical forms of academic use-value, including the value we place on linguistic expression and language-based evaluation. Research-creation, I argue in chapter 1, has no method to follow, and no ready-made modes of evaluation.
The term Moten and Harney propose for the crafting of problems is study, emphasizing that study is not a place where everyone “dissolves into a student” but where there is the acknowledgment that there is no way “of being intellectual that isn’t social.” In a conversation between himself, Stevphen Shukaitis, and Stefano Harney, Moten explains:
When I think about the way we use the term “study,” I think we are committed to the idea that study is what you do with other people. It’s talking and walking around with other people, working, dancing, suf- fering, some irreducible convergence of all three, held under the name
of speculative practice. The notion of a rehearsal—being in a kind of workshop, playing in a band, in a jam session, or old men sitting on a porch, or people working together in a factory—there are these various modes of activity. The point of calling it “study” is to mark that the in- cessant and irreversible intellectuality of these activities is already pres- ent. These activities aren’t ennobled by the fact that we now say, “oh, if you did these things in a certain way, you could be said to be have been studying.” To do these things is to be involved in a kind of common in- tellectual practice. What’s important is to recognize that that has been the case—because that recognition allows you to access a whole, varied, alternative history of thought. (Moten and Harney 2013: 109–110)
Whether we call it study or we call it research-creation and engage directly with knowledge as it is being reframed in pockets of academic discourse, what matters is that there is an explicit disavowal of method as generator of knowledge. For method, aligned as it is to the major, is what seeks to cap- ture the minor gesture, what seeks to capture study, and silence it.
With the undercommons as beacon for emergent collectivity, and study, or research-creation, as its mode of engagement, this book attempts to get away from asking questions that already contain their answers. “What I would want to do is not so much keep producing questions but to step to the side of the question a bit and think through the importance of study— that it might be possible to imagine a form of movement or political mobi- lization that would be driven by or centered on the activity of study in a way that does not require the figuration of the student, or potentially some sort of reification of the figure of the student” (Bousquet, Harney, and Moten 2009: 160). Study, like research-creation, refutes the “subject” of study, and in so doing it also refuses the “object of study.” It does so by always beginning with the creation of a problem that is truly productive of inquiry. In so doing, it opens the field of experience to the more-than of objects or subjects preformed. Study is an act that delights in the activation of the as-yet-unthought. It is an activity of immanent critique, as I argue in chapter 1, an act that only knows the conditions of its existence from within its own process, an act that refuses to judge from without. Study, research- creation—these are pragmatically speculative practices that, while abso- lutely entrenched in their own process of making-time, here, now, remain untimely. For as practices, they activate event-time, the time unparsed of the intuitive, a concept I explore further in chapter 2, inventing problems that have no home, no reference yet. Such problems need a collective to
answer them; they need the undercommons. They require study. And, it bears repeating: what emerges from study will never be an answer. What emerges will be patient experimentation. What emerges will be another mode of encounter, another problem, another opening onto the political as site as yet undefined.