1 Motor apraxia, linked as it is to specific brain function, tends to condense movement difference to a simplified reading of brain damage. It is more inter- esting, therefore, to consider the movement divergence autistics speak of in terms of “autistic movement disturbance.” While some aspects of the pathol- ogy are allied to apraxia, current research suggests that what occurs within autistic experience is more global and therefore cannot be reduced to a single pathology. For the purposes of this chapter, while I will hold on to Kedar’s use of apraxia, my focus will be on how movement opens up the very question of pathology. For an interesting paper on the topic of autistic motor disturbance, see Torres et al. 2013. Torres et al. write: “Our results suggest that there is a lack of spontaneous autonomy in the autistic system that impedes adaptive and co-adaptive volitional control and that this is largely contributed by corrupted afferent peripheral information, including input from the autonomic and so- matic nervous systems of which we specifically tackled hand movement pro- prioception here. Our work highlights that autism is a systemic neurodevelop- mental disorder with concrete, measurable physical bases. Autism should not be exclusively portrayed as a psychological, abstract cognitive/social problem of a ‘disembodied’ brain. This would be a static snapshot of a person whose sensory-motor systems are clearly evolving and changing in compensatory ways.” For more, see Torres et al. 2013.
2 Ido Kedar recounts his experience from ages twelve to fifteen; he wrote Ido in Autismland (Kedar 2012) over this period. I mention this both to underline the extraordinary maturity in his writing and to draw attention to the fact that he has perhaps not yet fully come into himself as a thinker of disability or neuro- diversity.
3 Deleuze and Guattari’s account of the “Body without Organs”—a concept that comes from Antonin Artaud—might be considered a limit condition where neurotypicality meets neurodiversity. See Deleuze and Guattari 1987.
4 About stimming, which is usually described as uncontrollable, involuntary movements that calm down the nervous system, Ido Kedar writes: “Stims have a force that is powerful and compelling. They feel like forces that make resis- tance futile. It’s like resisting hunger or sleep in some ways. They come into my mind so suddenly. Then I feel overwhelmed by the urge to do something like hand flapping, or noises, or spitting out water” (2012: 42).
5 See Manning 2013; “Coming Alive in a World of Neurodiversity” in Manning and Massumi 2014.
6 aba refers to Applied Behavior Analysis, which is still a dominant therapeutic means for dealing with autistics. Autism Speaks, a highly questionable organi- zation that privileges the model of cure and doesn’t allow autistics to speak for themselves, describes it this way: “Behavior analysis focuses on the principles that explain how learning takes place. Positive reinforcement is one such prin- ciple. When a behavior is followed by some sort of reward, the behavior is more likely to be repeated. Through decades of research, the field of behavior analysis has developed many techniques for increasing useful behaviors and reducing those that may cause harm or interfere with learning. Applied behavior analysis (aba) is the use of these techniques and principles to bring about meaning- ful and positive change in behavior.” For more on aba, see “Applied Behavior Analysis (aba),” Autism Speaks, http://www.autismspeaks.org/what-autism
/treatment/applied-behavior-analysis-aba (accessed March 5, 2015).
7 S.v. “inflection,” Oxford English Dictionary (accessed April 14, 2014).
8 From “Mouvement total,” an unpublished manuscript by Jose Gil (2000).
9 This comes close to the definition of “bare activity,” which Massumi develops in several of his essays, most notably in Semblance and Event: Activist Philos- ophy and the Occurrent Arts (Massumi 2011: 1–3, 10–11) and “Perception At- tack: Brief on War Time” (Massumi 2010).
10 The concept of the interval is explored in more detail in Manning 2009, par- ticularly the first chapter, “Incipient Action: The Dance of the Not-Yet.”
11 For more on cueing and aligning in the context of Bill Forsythe’s work, see “Choreography as Mobile Architecture” in Manning 2013.
12 Recent studies have shown that doodling enhances attention. John Cloud writes: “We doodlers, fidgeters and whisperers always get the same jokey, passive-aggressive line from the authority figure at the front of the room: ‘I’m sorry, are we bothering you?’ How droll. But the underlying message is clear:
Pay attention. . . . In a delightful new study, which will be published in the jour- nal Applied Cognitive Psychology, psychologist Jackie Andrade of the University of Plymouth in southern England showed that doodlers actually remember more than nondoodlers when asked to retain tediously delivered information, like, say, during a boring meeting or a lecture.” Cloud does go on to suggest that doodling enhances memory because there is no time to daydream. Neuro- typicality rears its head even in accounts of how we are now invited to doodle! For more on the question of time and neurodiversity, see John Cloud, “Study: Doodling Helps You Pay Attention,” Time, February 26, 2009, http://content
.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,1882127,00.html.
13 On the impossibility of standing still, see “A Mover’s Guide to Standing Still” in Manning 2009.
14 For a more detailed exploration of the concepts of “preacceleration” and the “elasticity of the almost,” see “Elasticity of the Almost” in Manning 2009.
15 See Souriau 2009. For a more detailed exploration of modes of existence in rela- tion to process philosophy, see also Erin Manning, “Body Becomes Dress: Fash- ioning the Force of Form,” The Funanbulist (March 2014), http://thefunambulist
.net/2014/03/13/the-funambulist-papers-51-dress-becomes-body-fashioning
-the-force-of-form-by-erin-manning/.
16 Unable to find a better term, Brian Massumi opted for the already-existent translation. While many people have expressed doubt about the translation, nothing better has yet been found.
17 For a detailed account of techniques invented at the SenseLab, see “Proposi- tions for Thought in the Act” in Massumi and Manning 2014.
18 Although I don’t write about the interval per se in Politics of Touch: Sense, Movement, Sovereignty (Manning 2007), it was a thinking of the interval in re- gards to a reaching-toward that was at the heart of the rethinking of the body politic in that book.
19 Much excellent work has been done in this area in the past decade. This in- cludes (but is not limited to) Massumi 2015 and forthcoming; Connolly 2013, 2010; Bennett 2009; and Panagia 2009.
20 For more on machinic animism, see Angela Melitopoulos and Maurizio Lazza- rato, “Assemblages: Félix Guattari and Machinic Animism,” e-flux, 2012, http:// www.e-flux.com/journal/assemblages-felix-guattari-and-machinic-animism/ (accessed January 20, 2015).
21 For a more thorough account of autistic emphasis on the more-than-human and the ways in which autistics are seen as non-human, see my critique of “mindblindness” in “An Ethics of Language in the Making” in Manning 2013. See also Savarese 2015.
22 See more by Amelia Baggs at http://withasmoothroundstone.tumblr.com (ac- cessed March 24, 2015).
23 Massumi develops a similar account of the link between activist philosophy and the theory of value. Central to his argument is a critique of capitalist forms of value, including capitalist surplus-value. See Massumi forthcoming.
6. CARRYING THE FEELING