1 An incomplete list of the many important accounts of autistic perception and the challenges of crossing the neurodiversity/neurotypical divide include Blackman 2001; Brauns 2002; Gerland 1997; McKean 1994; Miller 2003; DJ Sa- varese, http://tash.org/breaking-the-barriers/personal-stories/d-j-savarese/ (accessed September 30, 2015); Mukhopadhyay 2000, 2007; Prince-Hughes 2004; Williams 1992; Yergeau 2013.
2 Because the point I am making here concerns the role of the “subject” as an event-based category in Whitehead, I am simplifying the concept of subjec- tive aim, which in Whitehead has a role to play at both the physical and the mental poles. On the one hand, the subjective aim can be understood as the act of “aiming,” in the event, that orients how it comes to express itself as such (as subjective form). The subjective aim is “the lure for feeling,” the concern, in the event, for how it comes to be (1978: 130). In Bergsonian terms, it might be allied to the concept of sympathy. This gets more complicated when White- head delves into what he calls “the category of subjective intensity.” Now, aim operates not only as an orientation, but also as a force for the (conceptual) future. He writes: “The subjective aim, whereby there is origination of concep- tual feeling, is at intensity of feeling (a) in the immediate subject, and (b) in the relevant future. This double aim at the immediate present and the rele- vant future is less divided than appears on the surface. For the determination of the relevant future, and the anticipatory feeling respecting provision for its grade of intensity, are elements affecting the immediate complex of feeling. The greater part of morality hinges on the determination of relevance in the future. The relevant future consists of those elements in the anticipated future which are felt with effective intensity by the present subject by reason of the real potentiality for them to be derived from itself ” (Whitehead 1978: 41). A new kind of novelty is potentialized here: “Thus a single occasion is alive when the subjective aim which determines its process of concrescence has intro- duced a novelty of definiteness not to be found in the inherited data of its pri- mary phase. The novelty is introduced conceptually and disturbs the inherited ‘responsive’ adjustment of subjective forms. It alters the ‘values,’ in the artist’s sense of that term” (1978: 159). Subjective aim brings difference to the fore in the event. The minor gesture works in a similar way, both motivating the event and activating the event’s differential.
3 Whitehead writes: “Prehensions are not atomic; they can be divided into other prehensions and combined into other prehensions. Also prehensions are not independent of each other. The relation between their subjective forms is constituted by the one subjective aim which guides their formation. This cor- relation of subjective forms is termed ‘the mutual sensitivity’ of prehensions” (1978: 358). There tends to be some misunderstanding about the role of atom- icity in Whitehead. The atomic aspect of the event, that the event is, here, now, exactly what it is, does not mean that there was not potential for it to be
something else, nor does it mean that the occasion that follows from it is fixed. It simply means that once the event has found its subjective form, it cannot be unformed. Its orientation is now in the world, of the world. The concept of mutual sensitivity is key. With mutual sensitivity comes mutual inclu- sion: the time of experience is relational, the occasion alive with incipient fu- turity.
4 Screening tests are the norm for many in the category considered “at danger” for Down syndrome. Current statistics demonstrate that more than 90 percent of pregnancies in the United Kingdom and Europe with a diagnosis of Down syndrome are terminated, with similar though slightly lower percentages in the United States and Canada. Renate Lindeman writes: “Singling out a con- dition by offering routine screening and enabling selective abortion sends a strong value judgment about potential quality of life. Trying to predict the future based solely on their genes opens the door to discrimination, anxiety, fears and underestimating social and environmental factors in maintaining health. Progress that was made over many generations, in terms of inclusion and equal rights, could be lost in less than one” (2008).
5 On his blog Bad Cripple, William Peace writes as an advocate for disability rights, focusing especially on people with spinal injury. He writes:
In the last 25 years the statistics associated with unemployment and dis- ability have not changed significantly. Between 66 and 70% of people with a disability are unemployed. These are grim numbers. The reasons for the shockingly high unemployment rates have been keenly debated. Businesses are loath to hire people with a disability. Years ago I had a student who was stunned by these numbers and wanted to do a fieldwork project. She proposed to go to the mall and ask the big national clothing stores, Gap, Banana Republic, American Eagle, Ann Taylor, etc. for a job application. She wore the same clothing and told the same background story each time. On one visit she would simply walk in the store and ask for an application. She got an application 99% of the time. She would return one week later wearing the same clothes but using a properly fitting wheelchair. She was not given one application. Every store told her they were not hiring. The point here is the social bias against hiring people with a disability is over- whelming.
William Peace, “The Return on Disability: A Capitalistic Profit Model I Ap- prove of,” Bad Cripple, March 1, 2014, http://badcripple.blogspot.ca.
6 Within the community of autistics who argue in favor of neurodiversity, there is a strong movement against the dominant cure-based autism organi- zation Autism Speaks. The Autism Self-Advocacy Network is a strong propo- nent of this view. “Nothing About Us Without Us” is their mandate (http:// autisticadvocacy.org). In a joint letter written on January 6, 2014, they write: “‘Autism Speaks’ advertising depends on offensive and outdated rhetoric of fear and pity, presenting the lives of autistic people as tragic burdens on our
families and society. In its advertising, Autism Speaks has compared being au- tistic to being kidnapped, dying of a natural disaster, having a fatal disease, and countless other inappropriate analogies. In one of its most prominent fund- raising videos, an Autism Speaks executive stated that she had considered plac- ing her child in the car and driving off the George Washington Bridge, going on to say that she did not do so only because she had a normal child as well. Autism Speaks advertisements have cited inaccurate statistics on elevated di- vorce rates for parents of autistic children and many other falsehoods designed to present the lives of autistic children and adults as little more than tragedies.” For the full letter, see http://autisticadvocacy.org/2014/01/2013-joint-letter
-to-the-sponsors-of-autism-speaks/ (accessed June 10, 2014).
7 There remains a gender income gap in the United Kingdom, Canada, the United States, and most countries in Europe and Japan that exceeds 20 per- cent and can be as high as 29 percent (in Japan).
8 For current movements that combat this infantilization, arguing not only for their rights as nations but also for the recognition of their essential difference, see, for instance, the work of the indigenous movement Idle No More (http:// www.idlenomore.ca). See also the section on affirmation in the postscript.
9 Many authors have written about the so-called “case” of facilitated commu- nication (fc). In “Moral Spectatorship: Technologies of Voice and Affect in Postwar Representations of the Child,” Lisa Cartwright writes: “The case against fc was so volatile . . . because the method made absolutely blatant the uncomfortable fact of intersubjectivity and dependency as requisites of soci- ality in a culture that holds onto a notion of the autonomous subject as the proud cornerstone of democratic freedom even as technological means pro- liferate” (2008: 161).
10 For a more thorough account of techniques, see “Touch as Technique” in Manning 2009.
11 For an account of chunking, see “Coming Alive in a World of Texture” in Man- ning and Massumi 2014.
12 For a more in-depth exploration of the prearticulation in relation to the ways in which autistics come to language, and for a closer reading of several autistic writers, see “An Ethics of Language in the Making” in Manning 2013.
13 DJ Savarese spent hours on a trampoline in the periods when his sensory sys- tem felt most deregulated. Emily and Ralph Savarese have both given accounts of how confident his movements on the trampoline are as compared to walk- ing on hard ground. I wonder about the necessity for sensory feedback—the trampoline, the swing, water. Even softer ground like grass probably makes movement easier. As discussed in the preceding chapter, the issue is not that autistics can’t move or stand still, but that there is such a tendency to think of movement as beginning in stillness.
14 It isn’t solely the human that acts as facilitator. Blackman, for instance, also speaks of how water brings relaxation: “Water is a support that makes my body really know where it is” (2013: 36). Water is one site where the latencies in
auditory perception, the “perceptual holes,” as she calls them, are more back- grounded, allowing for the felt perception of a certain specificity of edgings into form.
15 See Amelia (formerly Amanda) Baggs’s video In My Language (2007). For a more detailed engagement with this video, see both “Thought in Motion” in Manning 2009 and “Toward a Leaky Sense of Self” in Manning 2013.
16 Ralph Savarese discusses poetry in relation to Larry Bissonnette’s writings in Savarese 2012. See also Larry Bissonnette’s paintings: http://www.taaproject
.com/portfolio/larry-bissonette/. For a discussion of Tito Mukhopadhyay’s writings, see also Savarese 2014.
17 For Whitehead’s discussion of recipient and provoker, see “Subjects and Ob- jects” in Whitehead 1967.
18 For a sustained account of relational movement and preacceleration, see “In- cipient Action: The Dance of the Not-Yet” in Manning 2009.
19 See “The Dance of Attention” in Manning 2013.
20 A quick perusal of the Internet will bring up endless sites to “increase your au- tistic child’s attention span.” The following type of description abounds: “Sam is a visually distracted 5 year old boy with autism. He interacts and communi- cates very well but the moment that something catches his eye he is compelled to go and check it out. This can be very frustrating when we are trying to work on his ability to maintain attention and develop a great connection with him. Sound familiar?” Monique, “Nutty Therapy Idea That Worked! Help Improve the Attention Span of Your Child with Autism,” Connect Therapy, http://www
.autism-essentials.com/blog/improve-attention-span-of-child-with-autism/ (accessed March 15, 2015). What these sites emphasize is a form of attention completely aligned to neurotypical accounts of volitional intentionality. This is not how autistics attend. Autistics engage in a field attention that opens toward the environment. Their way of attending is extremely engaged, though less focused on parsing. It allows them to have extraordinary powers of mem- ory. It is key to learn from autistics themselves how best to create the kind of facilitation that works for their kind of distributed, field attention.
21 Wretches and Jabberers (dir. Geraldine Wurzburg, 2011) is a documentary that follows two classical autistics, Larry Bissonnette and Tracy Thresher, on a global journey to address prevailing attitudes about disability and intelligence. They visit autistics in India, Japan, and Finland, and in all of the autie-typing that happens, we hear the familiar lilting, metaphorical (metamorphical), poetic language Savarese calls autie-type.
22 For writing by Emma Zurcher-Long and Ariane Zurcher, see http://emmashop ebook.com/page/2/ (accessed April 12, 2015).
23 For writing by Larry Bissonnette, see http://www.wretchesandjabberers.org
/larry/index.php (accessed August 23, 2015).
24 For writing by DJ Savarese, see http://www.ralphsavarese.com/category/djs
-writings/ (accessed July 10, 2015).
25 For a discussion of this statement of Mukhopadhyay’s, see Savarese 2013.
26 Among several articles written on the subject, see, for instance, Bebko, Perry, and Bryson 1996. The general critique of fc in the literature, particularly from the 1990s, is that it is “not a valid method.” Unfortunately (but not surpris- ingly), when fc proponents have defended fc, they have similarly done it around method, despite both strong evidence that autie-type is singular across cultures and populations (could all facilitators possibly be so poetic?!) and the fact that within the testing models of methods there is no way to account for relation. In fact, to come to a strong account of method, as I argue in chapter 1, relation must be cut out of the equation.
About Rapid Prompting, the kind of facilitated communication Soma Muk- hopadhyay uses, the same kinds of issues around methodology arise. Wombles writes: “Though Rapid Prompting Method has been in use for approximately a decade, there are no studies on this method’s effectiveness at helping indi- viduals with autism communicate or master academic material; there are only testimonials. Therefore, it is not possible to assess whether individuals with autism legitimately benefit or gain skills from rpm.” Kim Wombles, “Ques- tionable Autism Approaches: Facilitated Communication and Rapid Prompt- ing Method,” Thinking Person’s Guide to Autism, June 22, 2010, http://www
.thinkingautismguide.com/2010/06/questionable-autism-approaches.html. For the full work, see Wombles 2011.
A bibliography of work that dismisses fc on the basis on method would include, among many others, Finn, Bothe, and Bramlett 2005; Gernsmacher 2004; Green 2007; Kerrin et al. 1998; Mostert 2001; and Myles and Simpson 1996. For his groundbreaking work on fc and a completely different perspec- tive, see Biklen 1993; Biklen and Cardinal 1997.
27 Drawing Autism, http://50watts.com/Drawing-Autism (accessed April 22, 2015).