Epigraph: “Rei Kawakubo: Exclusive q&a,” wwd, November 19, 2012, http:// www.wwd.com/fashion-news/fashion-features/rei-kawakubo-qa-6486260.
1 For Laurent Berlant cruel optimism is a desire that is an obstacle to flourishing. Her project is one of accounting for what I would call a reactive tendency in the register of the affective. She does write about the gesture, however, in ways very much in tune with the project here laid out: “The gesture is a medial act, neither ends- nor means-oriented, a sign of being in the world, in the middle of the world, a sign of sociability. To elaborate, this version of the gesture is not a message; it is more formal than that—the performance of a shift that could turn into a disturbance, or what Deleuze would call a ‘problem-event.’ The ges- ture does not mark time, if time is a movement forward, but makes time, hold- ing the present open to attention and unpredicted exchange. The grimace is such a gesture. So is a deadpan response. A situation can grow around it or not, because it makes the smallest opening, a movement-created space. The gesture is thus only a potential event, the initiation of something present that could accrue density, whether dramatic or not” (2011: 198–199). I find real complic- ity in this account of the gesture, but would emphasize that the minor gesture makes a difference whether or not this difference is actually perceived. It is not, to my mind, a question of “a situation [growing] around it or not” but more a question of degree. Many minor gestures never cross the threshold into actual- ization. These gestures remain potentialized, as Berlant says, but that does not mean their effects aren’t felt in other registers than that of the actual. To make it an either/or situation keeps it within the register of the given. An affirmative politics emphasizes this point: all cuts make a difference. See Berlant 2011.
2 Amnesty Canada reports:
In a 2009 government survey of the ten provinces, Aboriginal women were nearly three times more likely than non-Aboriginal women to report being a victim of a violent crime. . . . rcmp statistics released in 2014 show that Indigenous women are four times more likely to be murdered than non-Indigenous women. . . . Some patterns of violence facing Indigenous women and girls are different from those facing non-Indigenous women. For example, according to the rcmp report released in May 2014, Indige- nous women are more likely than non-Indigenous women to be murdered by what the police call acquaintances—friends, colleagues, neighbors and other men who are not intimate partners or spouses. . . . A report released by the rcmp in May 2014 states that 1,017 Indigenous women and girls were murdered from 1980 to 2012. Because of gaps in police and government re- porting, the actual numbers may be much higher.
See http://www.amnesty.ca/our-work/issues/indigenous-peoples/no-more
-stolen-sisters (accessed November 30, 2014).
3 See Spinoza 2009.
4 “Statement of Apology to Former Students of Indian Residential Schools,” Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada, https://www.aadnc-aandc.gc.ca
/eng/1100100015644/1100100015649 (accessed December 2, 2014).
5 Glen Sean Coulthard, in Red Skin, White Masks: Rejecting the Colonial Politics of Recognition, frames his whole narrative around the rejection of recognition as a dominant trope of liberal politics, going into much further detail than is possible for me here. About Stephen Harper’s apology to the First Nations, he writes: “Although there was a great deal of skepticism toward the apology in the days leading up to it, in its immediate aftermath it appeared that many, if not most observers felt that Harper’s apology was a genuine and necessary ‘first step’ on the long road to forgiveness and reconciliation. The benefit of the doubt that was originally afforded the authenticity of the prime minister’s apology has since dissipated. . . . On September 25, 2009, . . . Harper made the somewhat astonishing (but typically arrogant and self-congratulatory) claim that Canadians had ‘no history of colonialism’” (2014: 105–106). Coulthard then goes on to weave his analysis around “the current entanglement of settler coloniality with the politics of reconciliation” (2014: 206).
In “Restitution Is the Real Pathway to Justice for Indigenous Peoples,” Taiaiake Alfred also upholds a strong critique of the politics of recognition, suggesting that “genuine reconciliation is impossible without recognizing Indigenous peoples’ right to freedom and self-determination, instituting res- titution by returning enough of our lands so that we can regain economic self-sufficiency, and honoring our treaty relationships. Without these com- mitments reconciliation will remain a ‘pacifying discourse’ that functions to assuage settler guilt, on the one hand, and absolve the federal government’s responsibility to transform the colonial relationship between Canada and Indigenous nations, on the other” (in Coulthard 2014: 127).
Another important voice on this issue is that of Leanne Simpson. On rec- onciliation and the politics of recognition, she writes: “Indigenous people at- tempted to reconcile our differences in countless treaty negotiations, which categorically have not produced the kinds of relationships Indigenous people intended. I wonder how we can reconcile when the majority of Canadians do not understand the historic or contemporary injustice of dispossession and occupation, particularly when the state has expressed its unwillingness to make any adjustments to the unjust relationship. . . . If Canadians do not fully understand and embody the idea of reconciliation, is this a step forward?” (2011: 21).
There are many other important voices. Among them I would strongly rec- ommend Kulchyski 2013.
6 Caley Ramsay, “Residential School Survivors Share Stories during Truth and Reconciliation Event,” Global News, March 28, 2014, http://globalnews.ca
/news/1238064/residential-school-survivors-share-stories-during-truth-and
-reconciliation-event/.
7 Leanne Simpson writes: “The process of resurgence must be Indigenous at its core in order to reclaim and re-politicize the context and the nature of Nish- naabeg thought” (2011: 20).
8 Hana Shafi, “For Canada’s Indigenous Women, Going Missing Is a Terrifying Possibility,” The Blog, Huffington Post, November 4, 2014, http://www.huffing tonpost.ca/hana-shafi/missing-and-murdered-indigenous-women_b
_6097234.html.
9 For an important and beautiful account of the kinds of issues discussed here, see Simpson 2011. The question that frames Simpson’s book is what reconcilia- tion means to Indigenous peoples. Simpson argues that reconciliation can do its work only if it honors the traditions of governance of First Nations peoples, as well as their languages and oral cultures. Her argument, that reconciliation has always been a part of First Nations culture, places reconciliation within the context of affirmation rather than reactivity. She writes: “Reconciliation must move beyond individual abuse to come to mean a collective re-balancing of the playing field,” and “this idea is captured in the Anishnaabeg concept aanji maa- jitaawin: to start over, the art of starting over, to regenerate.” Leanne Simpson quoted in Christine McFarlane, “Path to Reconciliation Means Educating Ca- nadians,” ammsa: Aboriginal Multi-Media Society, http://www.ammsa.com
/publications/windspeaker/path-reconciliation-means-educating-canadians (accessed November 28, 2014). Speaking as a member of the Anishnaabeg na- tion, Simpson emphasizes that “our systems are designed to promote more life,” which can be achieved through “resisting, renewing, and regeneration.” In a politics of affirmation, she continues: “I also think it’s about the fertility of ideas and it’s the fertility of alternatives. One of the things birds do in our creation stories is they plant seeds and they bring forth new ideas and they grow those ideas. Seeds are the encapsulation of wisdom and potential and the birds carry those seeds around the earth and grew this earth. And I think we all have that responsibility to find those seeds, to plant those seeds, to give birth to these new ideas. Because people think up an idea but then don’t ar- ticulate it, or don’t tell anybody about it, and don’t build a community around it, and don’t do it.” Leanne Simpson in Naomi Klein, “Dancing the World into Being: A Conversation with Idle No More’s Leanne Simpson,” Yes! Magazine, March  5,  2013,  http://www.yesmagazine.org/peace-justice/dancing-the-world
-into-being-a-conversation-with-idle-no-more-leanne-simpson.
On the question of the politics of affirmation and Indigenous resurgence, see “Five Theses on Indigenous Resurgence and Decolonization” in Coulthard 2014: 165–179.
10 Leanne Simpson writes about the politics of love at the heart of Idle No More. “That was the difference with Idle No More because there were so many women that were standing up. Because of colonialism, we were excluded for a long time from that Indian Act chief and council governing system. Women initially were not allowed to run for office, and it’s still a bastion of patriarchy.
But that in some ways is a gift because all of our organizing around governance and politics and this continuous rebirth has been outside of that system and been based on that politics of love.” Referring to a lake that is no longer clean enough to swim in, and thereby connecting a politics of love to a politics of affirmation, Simpson writes: “If you can’t swim in it, canoe across it.” Klein, “Dancing the World into Being.”
11 Leanne Simpson writes: “Over the past 400 years, there has never been a time when indigenous peoples were not resisting colonialism. Idle No More is the latest—visible to the mainstream—resistance and it is part of an on- going historical and contemporary push to protect our lands, our cultures, our nationhoods, and our languages. To me, it feels like there has been an in- tensification of colonial pillage, or that’s what the Harper government is pre- paring for—the hyper-extraction of natural resources on indigenous lands. But really, every single Canadian government has placed that kind of thinking at its core when it comes to indigenous peoples.” Klein, “Dancing the World into Being.”
12 In a conversation with Naomi Klein, Simpson describes the cosmology of the Nishnaabeg:
Because within Anishnaabeg cosmology, this isn’t the First World, maybe this is the Fourth World that we’re on. And whenever there’s an imbalance and the imbalance isn’t addressed, then over time there’s a crisis. This time, there was a big flood that covered the entire world. Nanabush, one of our sacred beings, ends up trapped on a log with many of the other animals. They are floating in this vast sea of water with no land in sight. To me, that feels like where we are right now. I’m on a very crowded log, the world my ancestors knew and lived in is gone, and me and my community need to come up with a solution even though we are all feeling overwhelmed and irritated. It’s an intense situation and no one knows what to do, no one knows how to make a new world.
So the animals end up taking turns diving down and searching for a pawful of dirt or earth to use to start to make a new world. The strong ani- mals go first, and when they come up with nothing, the smaller animals take a turn. Finally, muskrat is successful and brings her pawful of dirt up to the surface. Turtle volunteers to have the earth placed on her back. Nanabush prays and breaths life into that earth. All of the animals sing and dance on the turtle’s back in a circle, and as they do this, the turtle’s back grows. It grows and grows until it becomes the world we know. This is why Anishnaabeg call North America Mikinakong—the place of the turtle.
When Edna tells this story, she says that we’re all that muskrat, and that we all have that responsibility to get off the log and dive down no matter how hard it is and search around for that dirt. And that to me was profound and transformative, because we can’t wait for somebody else to come up with the idea. The whole point, the way we’re going to make this better, is
by everybody engaging in their own being, in their own gifts, and embody this movement, embody this transformation.
Klein, “Dancing the World into Being.”
13 This diet was composed of sips of lemon water, medicinal teas, and fish broth. See “Think Chief Spence Is on a ‘Liquid Diet’? You’re Ignorant,” Huffington Post, January 20, 2013, http://m.huffpost.com/ca/entry/2517450.
About the way the media portrays the indigenous in Canada, Leanne Simp- son writes:
While many of our communities are economically impoverished in a Western sense, they are far from poor. Our northern communities are rich because they know their languages. They are rich because they have strong connections to their land. They are rich because at least some of their lands exist in a natural state. They are rich because they live in the same commu- nity as their grandparents, aunties, uncles, cousins, and extended families. They are rich because they do not rely on material wealth to bring them happiness. They are rich because, despite years of disrespect, they have sur- vived and in many ways flourished.
The mainstream media does not see this richness, nor do they take a step back to examine the broader set of forces that has led to the crisis in Indigenous-state relations. And so, the well-meaning solution to Indige- nous poverty becomes economic development, which to me is tremen- dously misguided.
Our people have repeatedly been shown that industrial development does not solve our economic development problems. The diamond mine hasn’t helped Attawapiskat. Yet over and over, settler governments, which are primarily concerned with opening up Indigenous territories to develop- ment, paint the choice as either protecting Indigenous territories and liv- ing in abject poverty, or sacrificing the territory to hyperdevelopment by multinational corporations in exchange for jobs. Community-controlled, local, sustainable, and small-scale economic development is almost never discussed. Indigenous economies, the ones that kept our nations strong for tens of thousands of years, are erased and deemed a relic of the past.
Leanne Simpson, “Attawapiskat, Revisited,” Briarpatch Magazine, May 1, 2012, http://briarpatchmagazine.com/articles/view/attawapiskat-revisited. See also Alanis Obomsawin’s film People of Kattawapiskak River (http://www.nfb
.ca/film/people_of_kattawapiskak_river/) and Kulchyski 2013.
14 For a general overview, see “How the Idle No More Movement Started and Where It Might Go from Here,” White Wolf Pack, http://www.whitewolfpack
.com/2012/12/how-idle-no-more-movement-started-and.html (accessed October 7, 2015). For more on treaty 9, see “Treaty,” Matawa: First Nations Management, http://www.matawa.on.ca/66-2/ (accessed October 7, 2015), and Grand Chief Stan Louttit, “‘The Real Agreement as Orally Agreed To’:
Th    James  Bay  Treaty—Treaty  No.  9,”  http://www.mushkegowuk.com
/documents/jamesbaytreaty9_realoralagreement.pdf (accessed October 7, 2015).
15 Teresa Smith, “Justin Trudeau Meets with Hunger Striking Chief Theresa Spence,” National Post, December 26, 2012, www2.nationalpost.com/m/wp
/blog.html?b=news.nationalpost.com/2012/12/26/theresa-spence-justin
-trudeau.
16 Naomi Klein writes: “Though sparked by a series of legislative attacks on indigenous sovereignty and environmental protections by the Conservative government of Stephen Harper, the movement quickly became about much more: Canada’s ongoing colonial policies, a transformative vision of decolo- nization, and the possibilities for a genuine alliance between natives and non- natives, one capable of re-imagining nationhood.” Klein, “Dancing the World into Being.”
17 “‘Nishiyuu Walkers’ Complete 1,600 km Trek to Ottawa,” ctv News, March 25, 2013, http://www.ctvnews.ca/canada/nishiyuu-walkers-complete-1–600-km- trek-to-ottawa-1.1209929#.
18 Klein, “Dancing the World into Being.”
19 Klein, “Dancing the World into Being.”
20 For a video of the round dance, see http://www.youtube.com/watch?v= x2Nx4jUEZfc (accessed November 30, 2014).
21 For a version of Joe McPhee’s Nation Time, see http://www.youtube.com
/watch?v=EmPWoAO2gnU (accessed November 10, 2014).