To begin with research-creation is to immediately situate the force of the minor gesture in the activity of the differential. The differential, the ac- tive hyphen that brings making to thinking and thinking to making, en- sures that research-creation remain an ecology of practices. This ecology of practices needs a punctual proto-event such as the minor gesture to bring its potential into focus. The minor gesture activates the differential such that the ecology’s incipient heterogeneity becomes operational. When this happens, something has begun to take form that exceeds the registers of making on one end and thinking on the other. A movement of thought, as Bergson might say, becomes active, and in this activity a new register begins to take shape. This new register is neither art per se nor philosophy: it is study, it is practice, it is speculation.
In most cases research-creation as an academic category is directly con- cerned with artistic practice. Combined with study, however, the emphasis moves toward the exploration of how modes of making and thinking be- come consolidated in emergent, collective forms of practice that are artful, if not necessarily artistic in the strong sense. The artful, or what Raymond Ruyer (1958) calls “the aesthetic yield,” is defined throughout as the in-act of the more-than where the force of form remains emergent. Artful prac- tices honor complex forms of knowing and are collective not because they are operated upon by several people, but because they make apparent, in the way they come to a problem, that knowledge at its core is collective. Practices that think multiply are many: they can be activist practices, envi- ronmental practices, social practices. They can involve child-rearing, social work, teaching, playing. They can take place on a park bench, in the city, in the classroom, in the kitchen. To think multiply is to think in the register of the hyphen, of the differential, in the complex field of study opened up by the undercommons.
In chapter 2, where the concept of the artful takes form, I propose we work not with the current and most typical definition of art, which tends still to foreground an object, but with an aspect of its medieval definition:
art as the way. By focusing on process instead of form, it becomes pos- sible not only to raise the issue of the object—to ask how a focus on the object is similar in many ways to situating the subject as initiator of expe- rience—but to explore how time is engaged in the artistic process. Fol- lowing Bergson, I turn to intuition, and its manner of making time. I argue that intuition is as key to a process as any other building-block and that through intuition, as allied to the creation of a problem, the artful comes to expression.
What art can do when it tweaks toward the artful, what research- creation can do when the differential is activated by a minor gesture, is to make felt the intervals, the openings and captures within a process that is on its way to becoming a practice. This is explored in more detail in chap- ter 5.
The artful, in my reading of it, is aligned to what I have elsewhere called “autistic perception.”21 Autistic perception is the opening, in perception, to the uncategorized, to the unclassified. This opening, which is how many autistics describe their experience of the world, makes it initially difficult to parse the field of experience. Rather than seeing the parts abstracted from the whole, autistic perception is alive with tendings that create ecol- ogies before they coalesce into form. There is here as yet no hierarchical differentiation, for instance, between color, sound, light, between human and nonhuman, between what connects to the body and what connects to the world. When we engage in practice, when we are subsumed by pro- cess, we often seek this kind of perception, and it is available to us all: au- tistic perception does not belong exclusively to autistics. The difference is that, except in extreme circumstances, most of us parse experience before having a direct experience of the field in its complexity. The autistic, on the other hand, directly perceives the complexity before (and between) the parsings.
In the chapters that follow, the artful is always colored by the edgings into perceptibility of autistic perception. I focus on autistic perception not only to honor neurodiversity, to take into account modes of existence I consider key to making our worlds richer, but to make a political case for the necessity of creating techniques and minor gestures that open existence to its perceptual more-than. This is not to deny that autistic perception, for all its perceptual wonders, also makes typical aspects of everyday life diffi- cult to manage. For instance: crossing a street, it is always safer to have been capable of parsing cars from sidewalks from humans. After all, we live in a world that privileges forms of perception where the part can quickly and
easily be singled out from the whole. By foregrounding the inheritance of autistic perception in the artful, we are reminded that the qualitative open- ings in experience activated by autistic perception have a value in their own right. The problem is not with autistic perception but with how we consti- tute and value the frameworks of everyday living.
Frameworks of everyday living are also of the event. And so, like all events, they can be modulated by minor gestures. They can be opened up to their potential in ways that intervene into capitalist time. They can be- come forms of resistance. They can do so, for instance, by altering rhythms, reducing our alignment to the homogeneity of capitalist speed. Altering the speed at which the everyday tends to function creates openings for neurodiverse forms of perception. It also makes time for modes of encoun- ter otherwise elided. This call for the coursing of minor gestures within frames of everyday life involves crafting techniques that create the condi- tions not for slowness exactly, but for the opening of the everyday to de- grees and shades of experience that resist formation long enough to allow us to see the potential of worlds in the making. This involves becoming more attuned to event-time, the nonlinear lived duration of experience in the making. For it is in event-time that the minor gesture tunes the event to what it can do.
A politics allied to study, engaged in the crafting of problems that open up the time of the event, is an affirmative politics, not in the sense that it is optimistic, but in the sense that it begins with the in-act and embraces the force of the what else at the heart of all speculative pragmatisms. Such a politics emphasizes the techniques and conditions that lead to the creation of new problems, rather than promising an already-constituted field replete with form and content. Form and content are short-lived, and this makes them false starters. In a politics attuned to emergent difference, we must begin instead in the midst, where force has not yet tuned to form. In this middle, where the event is still welling, there is potential for new diagrams of life-living to be drawn.