Alternative diagrams for life-living must resist returning to a model of inside-outside where the human subject is situated as the motivator of ex- perience. This is our habit: to make the work about us. When we do so, we set up conditions that are only generative as regards what we perceive as our own well-being. Framing our approach to the political this way, we
place the subject, the human, in the position of agency, promoting the act in terms of the volitional thrust of our own intentionality. Even when we give voice to those silenced, even when we speak in the name of the mul- titude, even when we talk about the “agency” of an artistic process, even when we try to give agency to an oppressed people, we assume a mediation between an act and its unfolding, most often attributing the push to action to ourselves as a species, while still retaining a strong sense that the world is ultimately led and enhanced by the neurotypical few. This is the problem with agency: it makes the subject the subject of the action. What if the act did not fully belong to us?
Around the turn of the twentieth century, both Bergson and William James become invested in this problem of the act. What is it, they ask, that makes us so certain that the act is volitionally directed by a human subject? What is it that gives us the strong sense that the act’s effort belongs to us? And why is it so threatening, I might add, to think that within the act there is a considerable involuntary share of activity?
In chapter 6, I explore James’s account of the feeling of effort in detail. Here I will turn to Bergson’s analysis of the same question. The feeling of effort, Bergson suggests, seems to be allied to a muscular sensation: the magnitude associated with an effort is quantified according to the degree of muscular sensation a given activity demands. This suggests that the feel- ing of effort is allied to consciousness: what we name effort has something to do with a conscious estimation of intensity. Even when the effort is in vain—as in, for instance, picking up what we thought was a heavy box of books but was actually an empty box—the feeling of effort remains. Effort would therefore seem to be aptly connected to a willful movement under- taken, its intensive magnitude linked to the expectation of the amount of muscular contraction needed to follow through with the act.
And yet, as both Bergson and James point out, there is an issue with the above analysis. First, intensity cannot be quantified. It is but a shading, a coloring, of the event, in the event. If intensity is felt to have magnitude, the magnitude can only be qualitative. A quantification cannot therefore be assigned to intensity per se, but must instead be connected to a sense of what the intensity represented, after the fact. What this means is that there is an alliance between the feeling of effort and how the event has come to be known in retrospect. This knowing-in-retrospect is the work conscious- ness does in the parsing of an event.22 Bergson writes: “But just as con- sciousness . . . concentrates on a given point of the organism the increasing number of muscular contractions which take place on the surface of the
body, thus converting them into one single feeling of effort, of growing in- tensity, so it will hypostatize under the form of a growing desire the grad- ual alterations which take place in the confused heap of coexisting psychic states” (2007: 9). What is felt as quantitative effort is felt consciously, back- grounding not only the qualitative complexity in the event, but intensity’s own qualitative multiplicity. In the parsing that occurs with consciousness, a certain poverty of complexity has been chosen over the confused heap. This leads to the intervals of sensation—its degrees and multiplicities— being flattened into one single overarching feeling. The transition from the complexity of a purely qualitative experience to the feeling of effort occa- sioned in the conscious accounting of the act makes the intervals of sen- sation appear “as different intensities of one and the same feeling, which is thus supposed to change in magnitude” (Bergson 2007: 11). Whereas in the nonconscious welling event, every shift caused a change in nature, in turn causing a qualitative transformation in the field of experience, with the on- set of consciousness the tendency is to backgrid effect onto cause, creating a solid accounting of change that organizes the event within a temporal grid. This solid accounting is quantifiable only because it can be said to be the same or different—in time, in space, in effect—from the last solid ac- counting of experience. “Consciousness, accustomed to think in terms of space and to translate its thoughts into roots, will denote the feeling by a single word and will localize the effort at the exact point where it yields a useful result: it will then become aware of an effort which is always of the same nature and increases at the spot assigned to it, and a feeling which, re- taining the same name, grows without changing its nature” (Bergson 2007: 26). With consciousness, the feeling tends to move from the event into the subject, where the effort’s magnitude is directly aligned to experiences parsed, past and present.
If the feeling of effort is tied to consciousness, it follows that it must be tied to volition. The argument would look like this: when a movement is made consciously, we know the effort contained because movement is vo- litional, and as such, it belongs to us. A volitional movement, because it is intentional, and because it comes from us, must therefore already include within its parameters the knowledge of how much effort is necessary to carry it out. This effort is learned and comes through repetition. Once the movement becomes a habit it is practiced volitionally, that is, intentionally. We thus have agency over it.
We tend to divide movement into two general categories: reflexes or automatic movements, on the one hand, and directed or volitional move-
ments, on the other. We are taught that reflex, which is considered in- stinctual and therefore less refined than volitional movement, is a direct, nonconscious response in the event to a cause. A parent running into the street to grab their child before it gets hit by a car is engaged in automatic movement, suddenly capable of amazing acts of strength and stamina, all of which take place nonconsciously. Directed, or volitional movement, on the other hand, is defined as strategized movement. Because it is consid- ered to be beyond instinct, directed movement is said to be more free than automatic movement. After all, it is conscious, and consciousness is said to be a prerequisite for freedom. One sign of this freedom is that volitional movement is said to be able to resist the strict overlay of cause onto effect. For instance, during a game, a soccer player might be taught a strategy that includes moving in a certain way on the field, but she is equally expected to be able to consciously, that is, volitionally, alter course if necessary. Indeed, the soccer player’s talent is often measured by this “free act” of movement she is expected to be able to undertake in the split second of a change in play. This differentiation between conscious and nonconscious movement, between so-called “free” movement, on the one hand, and automatic or reflex movement, on the other, is problematic for several reasons. First, it hierarchizes forms of movement according to conscious behavior, ignoring the complex tendings within consciousness that open it to nonconscious inflections. Second, it classifies as primitive forms of movement that are alive in the event, thus situating autistic perception, for instance, on the side of reflex and neurotypical perception on the side of volition, thereby fur- ther cementing the hierarchy. It also confuses two levels of cause and effect in its account of freedom.
In the moving, in the act, we are in an immanent cause-effect relation. The soccer player’s active response to a change in play is an account of cause-effect, but one where cause-effect is still in transformation, affected by emergent improvisational movement operations. How the shift in play will affect the game is not strategized consciously by the moving soccer player; the cause-effect scenario is not measured in the doing. Something altogether different is at stake: the soccer player is in the field, is moved by the field; her movement not a response to the play so much as the acti- vation of a new field of relation. The talent ascribed to the soccer player is ultimately due not to her volitional ability to move, but to her capacity to effect cause in the event, opening the field to its potential through intuitive realignings activated by mobile cues, leading to a (re)directing of the game. All movement works this way, as I argue in chapter 5. When we believe we
have consciously affected the direction of an event, when we feel that an event has been moved by our volition alone, it is because a backgridding onto the event has taken place that has made sense of the play-by-play. This is usually how we explain our actions, but it is not how we act. How we act is based on a continuous interplay of conscious and nonconscious movement with nonconscious movement playing a vital part, especially as regards movement’s creative potential.
In our everyday movements, especially in relation to movements that have become habitual, a movement might nonetheless feel completely vo- litional. When this is the case, what has happened is that we’ve experienced a sense of déjà-felt, in the event. This déjà-felt occurs in the interstices of the conscious and the nonconscious, directing the event to its familiarity- in-feeling. What is important to realize, and what I explore further in chap- ter 7, is that the feeling of volition is not volition itself. The feeling of voli- tion is more aptly defined as a certain recognition, in the moving, of our having already moved “just this way.” But movement-moved is never twice the same: it is always altered by the ecologies that create this singular field of relation, and that influence how it will unfold this time. Volitional move- ment understood as movement belonging to the subject and fully directed by the subject is, therefore, impossible. Such an account of volition, as sug- gested above, can only be narrated after the fact. This post facto narration of our movements as volitional is of course more straightforward if the act maintains a certain similarity across variations. Major movements— movements that have a form that can easily be recognized, such as getting on the bus—are therefore more easily post-identified as “volitional” than are minor gestures.
Throughout, I consider movement as decisional rather than volitional, decision defined here not as external to the event but as the cut, in the event, through which new ecologies, new fields of relation are crafted. The soccer player’s reorienting of the field was decisional in just this way. Non- conscious movement is decisional in the sense that it is capable of altering the course of the event in the event. Elsewhere, I’ve called the attunement, in the event, toward decisional movement, choreographic thinking, em- phasizing the ability of movement to cue and align in spacetimes of compo- sition in ways that open experience to new registers.23 Reflective conscious- ness actually gets in the way of this process, as dancers and athletes will attest to. Movement-moving is at its most creative, its most operational, when not curtailed by the imposition of narratives of volition and inten- tionality.
THE NONCONSCIOUS SHARE