Affect is one of the most habitual ways we experience the nonvoluntary in the act. Bergson writes: “The intensity of affective sensations might . . . be nothing more than our consciousness of the involuntary movements which are being begun and outlined” (2007: 35). The force of the affective moves us. When this movement tunes toward an experience that can be defined as such, the conscious share of the nonconscious has briefly made itself felt. Degrees of parsing are possible here. There can, for instance, be a feeling, irreducible to definition but nonetheless semi-consciously ascertained, af- fectively felt but unarticulated, of an uneasiness or a tremulousness. Or, in cases where affect tunes to emotion, there can be a clearer parsing into the language of a singular feeling. In the second instance, where affect tunes to emotion, there is a shadowing over of the intensity of affect, though an affective trace still remains.
In the case of affect, the involuntary tends to be recognized and even ac- cepted, but only insofar as it is considered to have no real effect on our mo- dalities of existence. For we know well that affect is considered lower on the scale than reason or rationality. All is well with affect as long as ultimately we can hold it back and use our volition to steer our feelings, imposing de- cision from without. The problem should be clear by now. In transposing reason onto affect we are trying to have it both ways: we want to feel the in- effable, yet deceive ourselves into thinking we can sideline the ineffable and leave the bubbling ground of the welling event when it suits us. We want to believe we can decide where the event will take us. This is a mirage that underestimates the force of the nonvoluntary in our daily lives.
Because we have little by way of evaluative strategies for the nonvol- untary, because the nonvoluntary resists method, and, in many cases, lan- guage, there remains a firm belief that it is of lesser value than conscious, so-called volitional experience. Yet nonconscious experience is full of knowledge: it is, after all, the site of decision. No decision, as mentioned above, is made outside the event’s welling.24 Both Carl Schmitt and White- head, in their different ways, emphasize that decision is the cut that opens the event to a new field of relation, not the act that precedes or follows the event. Decision is not what happens after the affective opening of the event to its potential, but what cleaves the event, in the event. The minor gesture is a decisional cut.
The decisional cut is everywhere active. Take the example of picking up milk at the corner store. You might assume that this simple act is com-
pletely volitional. But much is left open to the event’s own process of de- cision, even in what seems to be such a simple, habitual act. You may not have realized, for instance, the way your movement was immanently di- rected and shaped not by your will alone, but by the pull of the corner store, or what James calls the “terminus,” a pull that doesn’t necessarily include a direct follow-through. For while the store did get you up, while its immanent directionality did incite directional mobility, it is possible that in this corner store instance you’re still in your living-room because on the way to the door a song began to play on the radio that brought the couch into focus and you found yourself lying down to listen to it instead of getting milk. Likely, when asked, you will say that you decided to lie on the couch, that you didn’t really need the milk, but in fact the event decided and you followed, open to the nature of the event-based improvisation that is part of all our daily choreographies.
I emphasize the nonvolitional in the act because so much is taken for granted in the name of neurotypicality, in the name of volition, of inten- tionality, of agency. For those who pass as neurotypical, for whom move- ment usually reads as volitional, it seems absolutely acceptable to have lis- tened to the song on the couch instead of walking to the corner to get milk. But for the autistic or anyone else for whom activation and impulse control may be an issue, the daily experience of not ending up where our move- ment seemed initially to be directed is not only deeply frustrating, but can also be taken as a sign of our lesser value as human beings: anything that makes us less independent in the eyes of a world that takes intentionality and volition as a normative standard tends to decrease our perceived value as contributors to society.25
One reason we identify nonvoluntary movement as other to neurotyp- ical movement is because we have a tendency to see movement as contin- uous, a view perpetuated by the habit of backgridding the event in con- sciousness, thereby introducing homogeneity into the activity after the fact. Movement is of course anything but continuous, its activity constantly inflected by the improvisatory quality of a response, in the event, to cues and alignments. Just think of the last time you moved on a crowded side- walk. It’s amazing how few people we bump into in the welter of crowds moving!
Bergson uses music as an example. For some of us, it is very difficult to select out sensory input. To listen to music might be to hear it as a many- times-unfolding, untimely complexity. It might mean you hear not the tune as such, or the measure, but the music’s differential, its composite
and rhythmic force of form. For those of us less attuned to autistic per- ception, however, this is likely not how we hear it. What we hear instead is a more homogenized version: we consciously reduce the sensation of sound’s intensity to a quantitative magnitude that is averaged out. “Thus when we speak of the intensity of a sound of medium force as a magnitude, we allude principally to the greater or less effort which we should have our- selves to expend in order to summon, by our own effort, the same auditory sensation” (Bergson 2007: 44). This averaging out through consciousness distances us from sound as pure quality: “The sound would remain a pure quality if we did not bring in the muscular effort which produces it or the vibrations which explain it” (2007: 46). In the parsing of sound, the music’s qualitative nuance is diminished.
To hear the differential of music’s immanent rhythms, to participate di- rectly in the quality of its sounding, it is necessary to hold back the con- scious ordering of sensation. It is necessary to increase the duration of the experience of direct perception, thereby honing autistic perception. For Bergson, this means doing away with the idea that sensation can be mea- sured, which also means: articulated, identified, parsed. Parsing, so allied with the neurotypical, not only reduces our capacity to feel the complexity of the event in the event, it perpetuates the hierarchy of conscious experi- ence over nonconscious experience, reason over affect. “What strengthens the illusion on this point is that we have become accustomed to believe in the immediate perception of a homogeneous movement in a homo- geneous space” (2007: 49). By situating the event outside of its activity, we become accustomed to neutralizing the force not only of what the event can do, but what the event is doing. In Bergson’s account, this involves a post facto spatialization of duration, of event-time.
Continuing with his example of music, Bergson writes: “As I interpret this new series . . . as a continuous movement, and as this movement has the same direction, the same duration and the same velocity as the preced- ing, my consciousness feels itself bound to localize the difference between the second series of sensations and the first elsewhere than in the move- ment itself ” (2007: 49–50). What if instead of parsing movement, we dwelt in movement-moving? This would allow us to be more attuned to the dif- ferential at the heart of the event, to its immanent contrast. If we did so, we would no longer be able to believe in pure continuity and would perhaps refrain from our tendency to homogenize experience. And we would begin to more easily perceive minor gestures at work.
Minor gestures recast the field, open it to contrast, make felt its differen- tial. They do so by activating, in the event, a change in direction, a change in quality. The activation of a change in quality is what Bergson defines as freedom. Freedom is here not linked to human volition, nor is it allied to intentionality or agency. Freedom is instead allied to the in-act, to the deci- sional force of movement-moving, to the agencement that opens the event to the fullness of its potential. Freedom is how the event expresses its com- plexity, in the event.
Bergson’s concept of freedom does not separate out activity from the in-act. In doing so, it radically repositions volition as an aspect of experi- ence, active in the act, no longer the external director of experience medi- ated. Without a hierarchy of conscious versus nonconscious experience, a more complex compositional field of experience emerges. Here there is still room for mutation, for difference, for an opening toward the as- yet-unseen, the as-yet-unthought, the as-yet-unfelt. In these interstices of the as-yet, minor gestures proliferate and can be harnessed toward the re- orienting of experience. This is freedom, for Bergson, defined against the usual definition of the free act, which would separate freedom from the in-act, placing freedom side by side with a voluntarist notion of decision. This more typical definition of freedom has us standing outside the event. We are free because we are rational, because we orient the act, because we have agency, because we resist the affective forces of those passions and de- sires that would steer us in the wrong direction. In this usual definition of freedom, as Bergson says, “we give a mechanical explanation of a fact, and then substitute the explanation for the fact itself ” (2007: 181). This is not the way Bergson conceptualizes freedom. As he writes, “Time is not a line along which one can pass again” and therefore “freedom must be sought in a certain shade or quality of the action itself and not in the relation of this act to what it is not or to what it might have been” (2007: 181–183).
Freedom, for Bergson, is dynamic, ecological. Freedom is a quality of the act, an ethos in the act’s opening onto experience. Not all events are free, but in every event we find the germs of freedom. These germs must be tended, must be sown in ways that allow the act to create problems that will in turn generate modes of action, of activity, of activism that create new modes of existence. The minor gesture tends the germs of experience in-forming, opening the act to its potential. In this sense, the minor gesture is a force for freedom. For the gesture is only a minor gesture insofar as it opens the way, insofar as it creates the conditions for a different ecology
of time, space, of politics. The minor gesture, we must remember, is de- fined by its capacity to vary, not to hold, not to contain. It acts on, moves through, its gesturing always toward a futurity present in the act, but as yet unexpressed. This is its force, this is its call for freedom.
In the chapters that follow, this is the operative question: what kinds of practices can be crafted that are generative of minor gestures? What might a politics of the minor gesture act like, here, now, in the event? And how can we articulate the delicate contrast carried by the minor gesture without flat- tening out difference, homogenizing experience?
This poses a significant challenge: how to articulate modes of existence, to articulate fields of experience, that operate as much in the noncon- scious as in the conscious realms, how to do so in a language that operates chiefly within the realm of the conscious. Perhaps the first step is not to be too certain of the frame that would separate the nonconscious from con- sciousness. States of consciousness, Bergson writes, “are processes and not things; . . . if we denote them each by a single word, it is for the convenience of language; that they are alive and therefore constantly changing; that, in consequence, it is impossible to cut off a moment from them without making them poorer by the loss of some impression, and thus altering their quality” (2007: 196). Minor gestures operate at this cusp where the non- conscious and the conscious co-compose, where language operates “be- neath the words,” as autistic Amelia (formerly Amanda) Baggs might say (2010). From this position of indeterminacy, of the ineffable, how to make intelligible the singularity of what cannot be measured or categorized but is felt and, in some sense, known? Here, where there is no perceptible differ- ence, as Bergson says, “between foreseeing, seeing and acting,” the minor gesture is key. For the minor gesture can open the way for a different kind of knowing, a knowing in the event, in nonlinear event-time, a knowing that, while impossible to parse, delights in the force of conceptual inven- tion (2007: 198). The minor gesture is an ally of language in the making.
“Freedom” may not be a word to hold onto. For now, I use it as a place- holder to remind us that volition and freedom need not be thought of as complementary. I use it also because the neurodiverse are rarely considered free in a world where freedom is usually associated with independence. A serious taking into account of the nonvoluntary aspect of freedom Berg- son foregrounds might ultimately make the neurodiverse free, free to be different, free to need and receive facilitation, free to perceive the complex- ity of experience on their own terms, and free, also, to move, to live, to love in unpredictable ways. For freedom is not to be found in the ordering of ex-
perience, in its measure, but in the dynamic intensity of the event’s unfold- ing. This unfolding affects us, moves us, directs us, but it does not belong to us. Freedom is transversal to the human: it cuts across human experience but is not defined by it. As Bergson writes: “The process of our free activity goes on, as it were, unknown to ourselves, in the obscure depths of our con- sciousness at every moment of duration” (2007: 237). The heterogeneity of the noncontinuous nature of experience is certainly not easy to articulate, but it is rich, infinitely so. To hear it, it is necessary to refrain from setting experience apart from the in-act.