In Modes of Thought, Whitehead protests what he calls “the bifurcation of nature” (1938: 30). The tendency to separate out the concept of matter from its perception or to make a constitutive difference between “nature appre- hended in awareness and the nature which is the cause of awareness” leads to a splintering of experience (1938: 30). What emerges is an account of experience that separates out the human subject from the ecologies of en-
counter: “The problem is to discuss the relations inter se of things known, abstracted from the bare fact that they are known” (1938: 30). To posit two systems—one “within the mind” and one “without the mind”—is a meth- odological posture still very much alive in the critical apparatus of the dis- ciplinary model. What we know is what can be abstracted from experience into a system of understanding that is decipherable precisely because its operations are muted by their having been taken out of their operational context. Whitehead explains: “The reason why the bifurcation of nature is always creeping back into scientific philosophy is the extreme difficulty of exhibiting the perceived redness and warmth of the fire in one system of relations with the agitated molecules of carbon and oxygen, with the radi- ant energy from them, and with the various functionings of the material body. Unless we produce the all-embracing relations, we are faced with a bifurcated nature; namely, warmth and redness on one side, and molecules, electrons and ether on the other side” (1938: 32). The unquantifiable within experience can only be taken into account if we begin with a mode of in- quiry that refutes initial categorization. Positing the terms of the account before the exploration of what the account can do only results in stultifying its potential and relegating it to that which already fits within preexisting schemata of knowledge. Instead of holding knowledge to what can already be ascertained (and measured), we must, as William James suggests, find ways to account not only for the terms of the analysis, but for all that trans- versally weaves between them. James calls this “radical empiricism.”
Radical empiricism begins in the midst, in the mess of relations not yet organized into terms such as “subject” and “object.” In this mess, everything that happens is real, be it the redness of the fire or its molecular makeup. James calls this field of relations “pure experience,” pure understood not in the sense of “purity” but in the sense of immanent to actual relations. Pure experience is on the cusp of the virtual and the actual: in the expe- riential register of the not-quite-yet. It is of experience in the sense that it affectively contributes to how experience settles into what comes to be. As with Deleuze’s actual-virtual distinction, pure experience is the in-folding of potential that keeps actual experience open to its more-than. The virtual is never the opposite of the actual—it is how the actual resonates beyond the limits of its actualization. In this relational field of emergent experience, there is no preestablished hierarchy, nor is there a preconstituted subject- position external to the event. There are only emergent relations. James writes: “Nothing shall be admitted as fact . . . except what can be experi- enced at some definite time by some experient; and for every feature of
fact ever so experienced, a definite place must be found somewhere in the final system of reality. In other words: Everything real must be experience- able somewhere, and every kind of thing experienced must somewhere be real” (1996: 160).
To reorient toward the radically empirical is to profoundly challenge the knower-known relation as it is customarily defined. Neither the knower nor the known can be situated in advance of the occasion’s coming to be—both are immanent to the field’s composition. Nor can the knower- known relation be classified independently of the ecologies that compose it, including those whose register is unquantifiable, such as the quality or affective tonality of experience. Like Deleuze’s insistence that the virtual, while not actual, is real, radical empiricism emphasizes that experience is made up of more than what actually takes form. Experience is alive with the more-than, the more-than as real as anything else directly experienced. James calls the in-act of experience “something doing” (1996: 161).4
When something does, new relational fields are forming, and with them, new modes of existence. A new mode of existence brings with it modalities of knowledge. These modalities of knowledge are not yet circumscribed— they are transversal to the modes of operation active in the relational field. They are still in-act. This is the force of radical empiricism: it gives us a technique to work with the in-act at the heart of experience, providing subtle ways of composing with the shifting relations between knower and known. It is important to reiterate: the knower is not the human subject, but the way relations open themselves toward systems of subjectification.5 Similar to Whitehead’s notion of the “superject”—which emphasizes that the occasion of experience is itself what proposes its knower-known relations, resulting in a subject that is the subject of the experience rather than a subject external to the experience—radical empiricism refutes the notion that experience is constituted before all else of human relations. In Whitehead’s terms: “An actual entity is at once the subject experiencing and the superject of its experiences” (1978: 43). An occasion of experience produces the means by which it will eventually define itself as this or that. It is an occasion of experience, not the human subject external to that ex- perience, that creates the conditions for subjectivity, a subjectivity that can never be disentangled from how the event came to fruition. A radically empirical approach takes this as its starting point, giving us the means to
consider how relations themselves field experience.
To engage the field of relation as an ecology where knowledge occurs, to place knowledge outside the register of existing knower-known relations,
allows us to consider the importance of what escapes that register. The in- effable felt experience of the more-than is also a kind of thinking, a kind of knowledge in the making, and it changes experience. That it cannot be sys- tematized or hierarchized does not make it less important to the realization of the event. This is the force of radical empiricism: it propels us into the midst, opening the way for an account of study that embraces the value of what must remain ineffable.