The question of knowledge—of its role in experience, of its value, and of its accountability—is, in our philosophical age, still a question of reason. Despite decades of engagement in transdisciplinary thought, disciplines still tend to order knowledge according to specific understandings of what constitute proper methods, policing these methods through long-standing systems of peer and institutional review. Disciplines also tend, in too many cases, to suggest that interdisciplinary research and especially transversal modes of thought are by nature weak because of their inability to secure robust methodologies that prove that knowledge was indeed formally at- tained. Method, here, is aligned to a making-reasonable of experience. At its worst, it is a static organization of preformed categories. At its best, it is an inquiry into the formation of categories that will, in the future, stand in as organizational strategies for academic thought.
Method’s alignment to reason is about setting into place hierarchies of relevance whose work it is to include that which is seen to advance knowl- edge. The problem is that in this activity of assuming in advance that we know what constitutes knowledge, there is a danger of not hearing the voices that, as Amelia Baggs might say, lurk beneath the words. These ex- cluded voices include that which makes language tremble, the voice of knowledges not yet parsed for the academic establishment. I think here of the call of indigenous philosophy (as story, as performance, as practice) as proposed by thinkers such as Leanne Simpson, Audra Simpson, Peter Kulchyski and others, the call of autistics and other disability activists who invite us to hear what has been silenced by neurotypicality, such as Baggs, Tito Mukhopadhyay, DJ Savarese, Melanie Yergeau and others, especially those whose nonspeaking voices are rarely included in what we understand as knowledge-formation, the call of artists whose work moves us toward aesthetico-political issues within drawing firm territorial lines, despite the political urgency their work addresses, such as Cecilia Vicuña, Elisapee
Ishulutaq, Mona Hatoum, and others, and the call of scholars who seek to listen and write across the uneasy resonances of knowledges in the making. It’s not that these voices are never heard. It’s that what they make palpable, what they make heard, unmoors the very edifice on which method is built. They unsettle thought and, in so doing, question the place reason still plays within the methods that direct our belief in what constitutes knowledge.
In working as an apparatus of capture, method gives reason its place in the sun: it diagnoses, it situates, it organizes, and ultimately it surveys and judges. Methods, we hear, are ever-changing, and this is surely the case. But any ordering agenda that organizes from without is still active in the exclusion of processes too unintelligible within current understandings of knowledge to be recognized, let alone studied or valued. Despite its best intentions, method works as the safeguard against the ineffable: if some- thing cannot be categorized, it cannot be made to account for itself and is cast aside as irrelevant. The consequences are many: knowledge tends to be relegated to the sphere of “conscious knowledge,” backgrounding the wealth of the relational field of experience in-forming; the force of change that animates a process is deadened; the uneasiness that destabilizes think- ing is backgrounded or effaced completely.
A standardized methodological approach begins to unravel if we ask not how knowledge can be organized, but what knowledge does. This radically empirical question is at the heart of Whitehead’s 1929 book A Function of Reason. What at first reads as a very strange account of reason, where rea- son is defined in relation to appetition and the more-than, The Function of Reason is an extraordinary feat of recontextualizing method beyond what Whitehead suggests is its superficial ordering of knowledge (1929: 10). Critical at its core of Kant’s notion of reason and indebted both to Plato and Ulysses—“the one shares Reason with the Gods, the other shares it with the foxes” (1929: 10)—The Function of Reason is a book I return to every time I want to rethink the way study can orient and invent move- ments of thought.
Whitehead begins by defining the function of reason in opposition to “the godlike faculty which surveys, judges and understands,” as “the art of life” (1929: 4). The Kantian definition of reason, which has left its im- print on contemporary understandings of reason, is here cast aside for a strange and compelling account of reason as the appetite for the cut of dif- ference.
Two kinds of reason are at stake in Whitehead’s account: pragmatic and speculative. On the one hand, reason is the decision-like function that cuts
into a process to facilitate its actualization. On the other hand, reason is what activates the more-than of a process, opening it to its potential. Draw- ing out the bold lines of his analysis, what emerges in Whitehead’s The Function of Reason, I believe, is a call for a speculative pragmatism, specula- tive in the sense that the process remains open to the more-than, and prag- matic in the sense that it is completely invested in its “something doing.”
In the crafting of his account of the function of reason, Whitehead be- gins with a definition of life. The art of life, he writes, is “first to be alive, secondly to be alive in a satisfactory way, and thirdly to acquire an increase in satisfaction” (1929: 8). The main point Whitehead seeks to make here is that the lively push to acquiring an increase in satisfaction cannot be lim- ited to a doctrine of the “survival of the fittest.”6 “In fact life itself is com- paratively deficient in survival value. The art of persistence is to be dead. Only inorganic things persist for great lengths of time. A rock survives for eight hundred million years; whereas the limit for a tree is about a thou- sand years, for a man or an elephant about fifty or one hundred years, for a dog about twelve years, for an insect about one year” (1929: 5–6). “Why,” he asks, “has the trend of evolution been upwards? The fact that organic species have been produced from inorganic distributions of matter, and the fact that in the lapse of time organic species of higher and higher types have evolved, are not in the least explained by any doctrine of adaptation to the environment, or of struggle” (1929: 7). Reason, he suggests, may be one way to account for the upward evolution, and, in particular, to the increase of satisfaction occasioned by the art of living. His conclusion: the function of reason is to direct the otherwise anarchic field of relation toward its ac- tualization (1929: 1). Reason is that which “realizes the possibility of some complex form of definiteness, and concurrently understands the world as, in one of its factors, exemplifying that form of definiteness” (1929: 9).
The question of the anarchic share of existence is key here. What is it that creates the conditions for “the adventure of living better?” Whitehead asks (1929: 19). The adventure of living better is achieved through the tight- rope of a constant realignment of the anarchic and the cut of actualization. Reason is not simply the pull toward the categorization that comes with forms of definiteness. It is the active differential at play in the between of anarchy and organization. Reason, as Whitehead defines it, is a decisional force that remains operative precisely because it carries the more-than of the anarchic. Method, on the other hand, allied as it is with the more Kantian definition of reason, is a cut that stills. Method stops potential on its way, cutting into the process before it has had a chance to fully engage
with the complex relational fields the process itself calls forth. As White- head so forcefully writes: “The birth of a methodology” is “in its essence the discovery of a dodge to live” (1929: 18).7 He continues:
Each methodology has its own life history. It starts as a dodge facili- tating the accomplishment of some nascent urge of life. In its prime, it represents some wide coordination of thought and action whereby this urge expresses itself as a major satisfaction of existence. Finally it enters upon the lassitude of old age, its second childhood. The larger contrasts attainable within the scope of the method have been explored and familiarized. The satisfaction from repetition has faded away. Life then faces the last alternatives in which its fate depends. . . . When any methodology of life has exhausted the novelties within its scope and played upon them up to the incoming of fatigue, one final decision de- termines the fate of a species. It can stabilize itself, and relapse so as to live; or it can shake itself free, and enter upon the adventure of living better. (1929: 18–19)
A process must determine its own reason. Any attempt to chart in ad- vance the interplay between the anarchic fullness of experience welling and the cut of actualization into determinateness of an event’s coming- to-be, stems the potential for difference. This renders experience stillborn: an event accounted for outside its own evolution is an event that has al- ready been taken out of its liveness and organized within the bounds of preexisting forms of knowledge. Life cannot be lived better in retrospect, as Nietzsche warns.
Whitehead’s account of reason does not deny definiteness or organi- zation. Neither does it suggest that experience does not create categories of existence. The issue is how this happens. Hence Whitehead’s emphasis on function. Experience in Whitehead’s account, as in James’s, is not de- limited from outside its own process: conditions must be invented, in the event, to make it operational. New modes of experience are created from the perspective of the event itself. This making-operational, from within the event, is what produces not only new modes of life, but livelier living. Reason is not the ability to judge from without, but the event’s own ability to parse “the welter of the process” (1929: 9). If we do not proceed against method, acknowledging the event’s own potential for activating the differ- ential between the actual and the more-than, Whitehead warns that “varied freshness [will be] lost, and the species [will live] upon the blind appeti- tions of old usages” (1929: 19).
On the continuum of reason as defined by Whitehead we find another key concept of his process philosophy: mentality. Mentality is the force that propels the physical beyond its mere life toward quality of existence. Each occasion of experience, for Whitehead, is both physical and mental. What is crucial is to understand that the mental and the physical are not mind/body (or body and consciousness) but differential aspects of one complex relational process directed by the occasion’s coming to be. The physical is that which persists in conformity with past forms. The mental is what troubles the conformity, opening the event to its more-than. “Mental experience,” Whitehead writes, “is the experience of forms of definiteness in respect to their disconnection from any particular physical experience, but with abstract evaluation of what they can contribute to such experi- ence” (1929: 32).
In relation to the function of reason, Whitehead defines mentality as the “urge towards some vacuous definiteness,” a taking-into-account of what otherwise will likely remain unaccounted for (1929: 32). This is where ap- petition comes in: “This urge is appetition. It is emotional purpose: it is agency” (1929: 32). Appetition is the drive that propels the cut, the agence- ment that activates the ineffable within a process where, as James would say, everything is real, including the force of the more-than. With appeti- tion comes, as the function of reason, an appetite for new forms of knowl- edge, new ways of coming-to-be. The appetite for more life, as Nietzsche might say.
Whitehead’s process philosophy never privileges the human realm. Ex- perience is experience; different kinds of experience have different effects. When exploring what an occasion of experience can do, appetition is a productive place to begin, for it reminds us that the urge is part of the pro- cess: the urge has an effect on where the event can take us. Whitehead sees reason both as the appetition that creates the initial opening onto the pro- cess, and as the decision that cuts into it to align it in a certain direction toward specific ends. Where mentality can open a process to anarchy, re- vealing the open-endedness of its proposition, appetition of a second order can lend the process a sense of organization. This is not the same kind of organization as method. It doesn’t seek to deny the anarchic share of the process—it mutually includes it (1929: 33). This mutual inclusion is felt as the carrying-over into experience of the beneath of words, the pulling-in of the ineffable more-than. This tunes the occasion to its differential, fore- grounding contrast, the force of form that always resonates on the edges of the gesture toward the ordering we call categories. The function of reason
is not to judge the categories, but to effect a canalization that can momen- tarily contain the anarchy. Reason as appetition allows the occasion to be- come self-regulatory, inducing “a higher appetition which discriminates among its own anarchic productions” (1929: 34). The mutual inclusion of the anarchic share tunes the event away from mere life toward life's more- than.