In the final pages of his account of the function of reason, Whitehead writes: “The quality of an act of experience is largely determined by the factor of the thinking which it contains” (1929: 80). Challenging the habit of situating facts above thinking—“the basis of all authority is the suprem- acy of fact over thought”—Whitehead inquires into the tendency to place thought outside experience, suggesting that this is precisely what is wrong with any concept of method (1929: 80). How might the fact of this oc- casion—what it does, how it feels, where it moves—be separated out by its thinking when thought itself “is a factor in the fact of experience” (1929: 80)?
Whitehead’s process philosophy is a critique of pure feeling that rein- vents the function of reason. By definition, this will imply sidling thought and feeling, and locating thinking-feeling at the heart of all process. In- deed, every occasion of experience prehends the world through a process “of feeling the many data, so as to absorb them into the unity of one in- dividual ‘satisfaction’” (1978: 65). Feeling here suggests an operation that moves incipient experience from the objectivity of data to the subjectivity of the actual occasion, data understood here not as packets of information but as the traces of past events which can be taken up or prehended to form a new occasion of experience. “Feelings,” Whitehead writes, “are variously specialized operations, effecting a transition into subjectivity” (1978: 65). The subjectivity feeling-thoughts effect is not that of a preexisting human subject, but the subjectivity of the occasion as such—its superject. Like Bergson’s intuition, which is the art in which the very conditions of ex- perience are felt, feeling opens the event to the as-yet-unthought within thought itself.8
Thought taken beyond reflective consciousness reminds us that con- scious thought is but the pinnacle of an experience that, in order to be- come conscious, has divested itself of much of its potential. As Nietzsche writes: “The logic of our conscious thinking is only a crude and facilitated
form of the thinking needed by our organism, indeed by the particular or- gans of our organism. For example, a thinking-at-the-same-time is needed of which we have hardly an inkling” (2003: 8). A thought that has little inkling of itself is a thought in the act, a thinking in the making of an oc- casion of experience. It is an incipient activity that summons intensities toward a coming-to-expression, a thinking directly imbued with rhythm, with feeling. Marking a difference between recognizing and knowing— erkennen and kennen—Nietzsche plays with the strange untimeliness of thought in-forming, reminding us that with nonconscious thinking-feeling there is often a sense of recognition despite a lack of knowing in the strong sense (2003: 14). Knowing is incipient to the experience at hand, actively felt but often indecipherable in linguistic terms, alive only in its rhythms, in its hesitations, in its stuttering.
And all of this, to return to my mantra, not in the preexisting subject. “I don’t concede,” Nietzsche writes, “that the I is what thinks. I take the I itself to be a construction of thinking, of the same rank as ‘matter,’ ‘thing,’ ‘sub- stance,’ ‘individual,’ ‘purpose,’ ‘number’: in other words to be only a regula- tive fiction with the help of which a kind of constancy and thus ‘knowabil- ity’ is inserted into, invented into, a world of becoming” (2003: 20–21). “I” is the movement of thought destabilized by the act, the coming-into-itself of a capacity to regulate experience, but only until it is destabilized again by the minor gestures coursing through the event.
This does not of course mean that there is no “I.” It just means that the “I” cannot be located in advance of the event, that the “I” is always in the midst, active in the relational field as one of the vectors of the in-act of ex- perience. “I am” is always, to a large degree, “was that me?”