I began with research-creation—with study—and with the question of what art can do. While I think method everywhere needs to be rethought in relation to its capacity to produce knowledge (rather than simply repro- duce it), this rethinking is perhaps most productive in areas that are still by their very nature under redefinition. Research-creation is one of those areas, coming as it does out of a long and rich experiment in transdiscipli- narity.
It’s probably fair to say that method has never managed to gain a strong- hold in transdisciplinary research, though there have been many attempts to couple the inter- or trans- with method. These attempts, usually orga-
nized around introducing students to their “field” through the academic proseminar, have largely focused on bringing together texts from different disciplines to explore a variety of accounts of how a disciplinary problem has historically been addressed, hoping to provide categories that will assist the student in locating their research within existing realms of knowledge. The supposition behind such courses is that they enliven cultural debate by situating the thinker in a community of thought, thereby opening up discussion to a plurality of modes of doing and thinking. In the best cases, this would then lead to an understanding of how a field or two have dealt with interdisciplinarity, giving the student a sense of the limits of inquiry. When this works, the student has not felt pressure to adopt one approach over others or to cradle the analysis with an already-existing framework.
Still, the question begs: do these approaches to learning accomplish much beyond teaching us to think in terms of disciplinary or scholarly limits? What is made unthinkable by an approach to learning that begins by delimiting, by sequestering modes of knowing from modes of making, including the making of concepts?
A speculative pragmatism takes as its starting point a rigor of experi- mentation. It is interested in the anarchy at the heart of all process, and is engaged with the techniques that tune the anarchical toward new modes of knowledge and new modes of experience. It is also committed to what escapes the order, and interested in what this excess can do. It implicitly recognizes that knowledge is invented in the escape, in the excess.
What mobilizes the rigor of a speculative pragmatism therefore cannot be a method imposed on the process from without. The rigor must emerge from within the occasion of experience, from the event’s own stakes in its coming-to-be. Technique is necessary. In philosophy, one technique is close reading. This proposition of Bertrand Russell’s is key: “In studying a philosopher, the right attitude is neither reverence nor contempt, but first a kind of hypothetical sympathy, until it is possible to know what it feels like to believe in his theories, and only then a revival of the critical attitude, which should resemble, as far as possible, the state of mind of a person abandoning opinions which he has hitherto held” (1996: 47).
A process of close reading involves a technique that opens philosophy to “a hypothetical sympathy.” This sympathy, aligned as it is with Bergson’s notion of intuition (which understands sympathy to be the vector through which intuition becomes operative), involves exploring, from within the process of study, what the work does, asking the work to open itself to its own field of relations. How are these relations posited? What do they do?
How does the rhythm, the cadence, the intensity of the text compose with its words? Where does thought-feeling escape or resist existing forms of knowledge? All of this before even beginning to explore the question of “where I stand,” which arguably, is the least interesting question of all. For “where I stand,” similar to the ubiquitous “object of study,” is too often the question that stops the process, that takes the writing out of the act, that aligns it to disciplinary method and, by extension, to institutional power. We all do this, of course, to a certain degree, but it seems to me that what study can do exceeds the kind of self-situating that too often becomes the death-knell of creative acts of reading (and, of course, of making). Another kind of stand must be taken, one that erupts from the midst, one that en- gages sympathetically with the unknowable at the heart of difference, one that heeds the uneasiness of an experience that cannot yet be categorized. Otherwise we find ourselves right back where we started: outside looking in at what is already recognizable, at what is already knowable.
Taking a stand in the midst is a messy proposition—the image that comes to mind is of being barefoot in a pile of grapes, assisting them in their process of fermentation. In the grapes, the process is directly felt, if not quite understood in its minutiae, and, to push the image further, it will no doubt leave stains. Reading or making are as messy, as uneasy-making, as exciting as pounding the grapes, provided that we take this situatedness seriously. For it is in the midst of the field of relations, in the undercom- mons, that practices are at their most inventive, at their most intense. This is also, of course, the place of risk. All that work, and the wine may still turn. Or just never be any good. The same goes for the sympathetic reading that creates a concept, or the artistic process that activates an object. These may go nowhere. But what they will do, no matter what, is create a process and, even better, a practice, and it is this that will have made a difference. For it will have made felt the urge of appetition, and with it the work’s af- firmation of the not-yet.
Speculative pragmatism means taking the work’s affirmation, its urge of appetition, at face value, asking what thought-feeling does in this instance, and how it does it. It means inquiring into the modes of existence gener- ated by the act of “hypothetical sympathy,” honoring the minor gestures produced at this interstice, and seeing what these open up, in a transversal maneuvering. It is about balancing several books, or several passages, or several ideas, or several textures, at the edge of the desk, on the floor of the studio, and wondering how else they might come together, and what else, together, they might do. It is about asking, as Russell does, “what it would
feel like to believe in his or her theories,” a task speculative at best, and tak- ing this speculation to its pragmatic limit: what can it do to thought, to a thinking in action? This is immanent critique.