Technique touches on how a process reveals itself as such. Dance tech- nique involves the honing of repetitive movements, but it also encourages the experimentation of what else those movements can do. Painting in- volves techniques for mixing color, for composition and form, but it also generates techniques of exhibition invested in mobile reorientations of what painting can do. This is not method: it is more dynamic than method, open to the shift caused by repetition, engaged by the ways in which bod- ies change, environments are modulated and modulating, and ecologies are composed. The painter-paint-canvas ecology is an ever-changing one, from sitting to standing to looking to feeling to touching to seeing. The writer-keyboard-book ecology also inventively alters its technique from the necessity to get another cup of tea to the rereading of the passage that gets things going to the habit of starting with a citation, to the terror and excitement of the writing itself.
Technique is necessary to the art of thought—to thought in the act— but it is not art in itself. Elsewhere, I have proposed that technicity may be one way to talk about what art can do in its outdoing of technique.9 Tech- nicity would be the experience of how the work opens itself to its potential, to its more-than. This quality of the more-than that is technicity is inef- fable—it can be felt, but it is difficult to articulate in language.
Since it works, as radical empiricism does, in the complex field of con- junctions opened up by the transitions in experience, research-creation can make technicity palpable across registers. It can make felt the force of transition and dissonance active in the conjunction. James writes: “Against [the] rationalistic tendency to treat experience as chopped up into discon- tinuous static objects, radical empiricism protests. It insists on taking con- junctions at their ‘face-value,’ just as they come. Consider, for example, such conjunctions as ‘and,’ ‘with,’ ‘near,’ ‘plus,’ ‘towards.’ While we live in such conjunctions our state is one of transition in the most literal sense” (1996: 236).
Transition doesn’t mean pure unconstrained becoming. It means flow and cut, discontinuity and difference. Transition is the swerve of experi- ence through which continuity expresses itself. Continuity becomes; it is
not becoming that continues. Emphasizing the cut of process, James re- minds us that process grows from discontinuity: “One more will continue, another more will arrest or deflect the direction, in which our experience is moving even now. We cannot, it is true, name our different living ‘ands’ or ‘withs’ except by naming the different terms towards which they are mov- ing us, but we live their specifications and differences before those terms explicitly arrive” (1996: 238).
What the conjunction between research and creation does is make ap- parent how modes of knowledge are always at cross-currents with one another, actively reorienting themselves in transversal operations of dif- ference, emphasizing the deflection at the heart of each conjunction. The conjunction is never neutral: it works the work, actively adjusting the im- manent coupling of research and creation, asking how the thinking in the act can be articulated, and what kind of analogous experience it can be coupled with, asking how a making is a thinking in its own right, asking what else that thinking can do.
The analogous experience that perhaps most strongly connects to the way in which making and thinking compose in research-creation is philos- ophy’s crafting of concepts. Philosophy is here understood not as a disci- pline but as a force of appetition, as a “hypothetical sympathy” in the in- tuitive making. Philosophy understood as a practice at crosscurrents with other practices. Philosophy as study.
As study, what philosophy can do is attend to the appetitions of other practices, composing with their thinking in the act. No method will ever assist philosophy in this enterprise, nor will any method be able to bring the complexity of divergent appetitions together as though they were one. Thought must not be mapped onto practice: it is an emergent, incipient tendency to be discovered in the field of activation of practices co-compos- ing. To map thought in advance of its speculative propositions would di- minish the force of study and reduce the operation to the status of the crea- tion of false problems and badly stated questions. In study, what is prized is not the homogenization of thinking-doing, the superimposition of one practice onto the other as though they were the same, but the creation of conditions for encountering the operative transversality of difference at the heart of all practice.
What  is  at  stake  is  the  very  redefi	of knowledge. For what research-creation does is ask us to engage directly with a process which, in many cases, will not or cannot be articulated in language. Philosophi- cally, this involves an opening toward a speculative pragmatism that defies
existing understandings of where knowledge is situated and what it can do. Innate knowledge—intuition, speculation—is frowned upon within methodological approaches, unless they can somehow be quantified. We need look no further than our own PhD programs in research-creation to see that our emphasis on the written document is about situating incipi- ency, locating intuition, managing speculation.
Research-creation does not need new methods. What it needs is a re- accounting of what writing can do in the process of thinking-doing. At its best, writing is an act, alive with the rhythms of uncertainty and the open- ings of a speculative pragmatism that engages with the force of the milieu where transversality is at its most acute. These, however, are not, generally speaking, the documents we require from students of research-creation. What we require, in the name of the academic institution, are documents that facilitate the task of our evaluation of their projects, writing that de- scribes, orients, defends. This is the paradox: we are excited by the open- ings research-creation provides and yet remain largely unwilling to take them on their own terms and experiment with them as new modes of exis- tence and new forms of knowledge. We remain held by existing methods because we remain incapable (or unwilling) to evaluate knowledge on its own incipient terms, or, better, to engage productively with new concepts of value.
The challenge that research-creation poses is one that touches at the very core of what the university has come to recognize as knowledge. By in- advertently acknowledging that nonlinguistic practices are forms of knowl- edge in their own right, we face the hurdle that’s been with us all along: how do we evaluate process?