Several decades ago, Félix Guattari faced similar questions. Having gone through a lengthy analysis with Jacques Lacan and having himself entered the field of psychiatry, he began to ask himself whether the models at hand would be capable of supporting (let alone creating) new modes of exis- tence. “From the start, psychoanalysis tried to make sure that its categories were in agreement with the normative models of the period,” he writes (1984: 85). Everywhere around him, the emphasis was on language. What of the modes of articulation, he wondered, that precede or exceed lan- guage? What about modes of subjectivity that cannot be made sense of through the split between subject and object, analyst and analysand? And,
in thinking against method, how might we get beyond transference, the keystone of psychoanalysis, itself such a powerful model? “Regardless of the particular psychoanalytic curriculum, a reference to a pre-determined model of normality remains implicit within its framework. The analyst, of course, does not in principle expect that this normalization is the product of a pure and simple identification of the analysand with the analyst, but it works no less, and even despite him . . . as a process of identification of the analysand with a human profile that is compatible with the existing social order” (in Genosko 1996: 65–66).
Schizoanalysis was Guattari’s antimodel proposition. He called it a “metamodel.” A metamodel, for Guattari, is a nonmodel that upsets ex- isting formations of power and knowledge, challenging the tendency of models to “operate largely by exclusion and reduction, tightly circumscrib- ing their applications and contact with heterogeneity” (Genosko and Mur- phie 2008). Metamodeling makes felt lines of formation. It does not start from one model in particular, but actively takes into account the plurality of models vying for fulfillment. Metamodeling is against method, active in its refutation of preexisting modes of existence, meta in the sense of mapping abstract formative conjunctions in continuing variation. As Gary Genosko and Andrew Murphie write: “Metamodeling de-links modeling with both its representational foundation and its mimetic reproduction. It softens signification by admitting a-signifying forces into a model’s terri- tory; that is, the centrality and stability of meaningfulness is displaced for the sake of singularity’s unpredictability and indistinctness. What was hitherto inaccessible is given room to manifest and project itself into new and creative ways and combinations. Metamodeling is in these respects much more precarious than modeling, less and less attached to homo- geneity, standard constraints, and the blinkers of apprehension” (2008). Whether we call it metamodeling, or whether we think of it as study or call it research-creation or radical empiricism, it is the question of how knowl- edge is crafted in each singular instance of a practice’s elaboration that is key. An engaged encounter with the very constitutive nature of knowl- edge—be it at the level of new forms of subjectivity, or in the reorientation of how thinking and doing coexist—is necessarily a disruptive operation that risks dismantling the strong frames drawn by disciplines and method- ological modes of inquiry. Of course, we’ve been saying this, in one way or another, for decades. But disciplinarity tends to win out, again and again.10 This is why we need the undercommons, an emergent site that does more than question the academic institution and its role in society. In the under-
commons, where emergent collectivity is the order of the day, appetition trumps nostalgia, inventing metamodels that experiment with how knowl- edge can and does escape instrumentality, bringing back an aesthetics of experience where it is needed most: in the field of learning.
Such an approach to knowledge in the making can be said to be schizo- analytic. Guattari explains:
With respect to schizoanalysis . . . it is clear that it cannot pose itself as a general method which would embrace the ensemble of problems and new social practices. . . . Without pretending to promote a didactic program, it is a matter of constituting networks and rhizomes in order to escape the systems of modelization in which we are entangled and which are in the process of completely polluting us, heart and mind. . . . At base, schizoanalysis only poses one question: “how does one model oneself ?” . . . Schizoanalysis . . . is not an alternative modelization. It is a metamodelization. It tries to understand how it is that you got where you are. “What is your model to you?” It does not work?—Then, I don’t know, one tries to work together. . . . There is no question of posing a standard model. And the criterion of truth in this comes precisely when the metamodeling transforms itself into self-modeling [automodalisa- tion], or self-management [auto-gestion], if you prefer. (in Genosko 1996: 133; translation modified)
Against method is not simply an academic stance. Much more is at stake here. How you get where you are is an operative question. What models model you? What else can be created, sympathetically, in the encounter? What kind of metamodeling is possible, in the event? What can a minor gesture open up? These questions cannot be abstracted from the ques- tion of value as it is defined by current capitalist practices, practices that take knowledge as an instrumental aspect of added-value or, in the artistic realm, prestige-value. How do we operate transversally to such capitalist capture? What new processes of valuation can be explored, and what will be the effect, for knowledge, of such experimentations?
New modes of valuation make apparent the cleft in the very question of what constitutes knowledge, making felt the share of unknowability within knowing. To attend to this cleft in creative and generative ways, we must engage not only the register of conscious knowing, but also that of the in-act of intuition at the edge of the nonconscious that makes felt the inef- fability of the event’s middling into experience. A leap must be made, and it is a leap that is undoubtedly disorienting. “He who throws himself into
the water, having known only the resistance of the solid earth, will imme- diately be drowned if he does not struggle against the fluidity of the new environment: he must perforce still cling to that solidity, so to speak, which even water presents. Only on this condition can he get used to the fluid’s fluidity. So of our thought, when it has decided to make the leap” (Bergson 1998: 193). Research-creation embraces the leap, and radical empiricism proposes a technique to compose with it across transversal fields of inquiry. What emerges across this cleft cannot be mapped in advance. “Thousands and thousands of variations on the theme of walking will never yield a rule for swimming: come, enter the water, and when you know how to swim, you will understand how the mechanism of swimming is connected with that of walking” (Bergson 1998: 193). Making and thinking, art and phi- losophy, will never resolve their differences, telling us in advance how to compose across their incipient deviations. Each step will be a renewal of how this event, this time, this problem, proposes this mode of inquiry, in this voice, in these materials, this way. At times, in retrospect, the process developed might seem like a method. But repeating it will never bring the process back. For techniques must be reinvented at every turn and thought must always leap.