The word “art” (die Art) in German means “manner” or “mode.” While it’s true to say that Kunst is the term in German currently used for art, might there be a recuperable trace of this early meaning in contemporary no- tions of artistic practice? Might there be a way to reclaim the processual that has increasingly become backgrounded in the definition of art as tied to an object?
In Romantic languages, where “art” as a word has been retained, mode or manner is eclipsed by a definition of art that emphasizes “the expression or application of human creative skill and imagination.” Art is not only re- duced entirely to human expression; it is also synonymous, as the Oxford English Dictionary (oed) would have it, with “visual form . . . appreciated primarily for [its] beauty and emotional power.”1
This current definition of art signals the way the object continues to play a key role in artistic practice, holding art to a passive-active organiza- tion that segregates maker from beholder. For those whose practice opens the way toward processual concerns, the oed definition will feel outdated. And yet there is no question that the object’s hold remains strong. I would therefore like to propose a new definition of art-as-practice that begins not with the object, but with what else art can do. I want to propose we engage first and foremost with the manner of practice and not the end- result. What else can artistic practice become when the object is not the goal, but the activator, the conduit toward new modes of existence?
Art, as a way of learning, acts as a bridge toward new processes, new pathways. To speak of a “way” is to dwell on the process itself, on its man- ner of becoming. It is to emphasize that art is before all else a quality, a dif- ference in kind, an operative process that maps the way toward a certain attunement of world and expression.
Art as way is not yet about an object, about a form, or a content. It is still on its way. As such, it is deeply allied to Bergson’s definition of intuition as the art—the manner—in which the very conditions of experience are felt. Intuition both gets a process on its way and acts as the decisive turn within experience that activates a productive opening within time’s dura- tional folds. Intuition crafts the operative problem.
In its feeling-forth of future potential, intuition touches the sensi- tive nerve of time. Yet intuition is not time or duration per se. “Intuition is rather the movement by which we emerge from our own duration, by which we make use of our own duration to affirm and immediately to rec- ognize the existence of other durations” (Deleuze 1991: 33). Intuition is the relational movement through which the present begins to coexist with its futurity, with the quality or manner of the not-yet that lurks at the edges of experience.2 This, I want to propose, is art: the intuitive potential to acti- vate the future in the specious present, to make the middling of experience felt where futurity and presentness coincide, to invoke the memory not of what was, but of what will be. Art, the memory of the future.
Duration is lived only at its edges, in its commingling with actual expe- rience. In the time of the event, what is known is not outside the event: it is the mobility of experience itself, experience in the making. To actually measure the time of the event, a backgridding activity is necessary. Such a reconstruction “after the fact” tends to deplete the event-time of its mid- dling, deactivating the relational movement that was precisely event-time’s force. Backgridded, experience is reconceived in its poorest state: out of movement.
Out of movement is out of act. For Whitehead, all experience is in-act, variously commingling with the limits of the not-yet and the will-have- been. Experience is (in) movement. Anything that stands still—an object, a form, a being—is an abstraction (in the most commonsense notion of the term) from experience. Such abstractions are not the image of the past (the past cannot be differentiated from the in-act of the future-presenting), but ahistorical cutouts from a durational field already on its way. Time can- not be held, and with its movement, everything changes in kind. “Object
and objective denote not only what is divided, but what, in dividing, does not change in kind” (Deleuze 1991: 41).
This is the paradox: for there to be a theory of the “object,” the “object” has to be conceived as out of time, relegated beyond experience, unchang- ing. Yet, in experience, what we call an object is always to some degree not-yet, in process, in movement. In the midst, in the event, we know the object not in its fullness, in its ultimate form, but as an edging into experi- ence. What resolves in experience is not, as Whitehead would argue, first and foremost a chair, but the activity of sitability. It is only after the fact, after the initial entrainment the chair activates, after the movement into the relational field of “sitability,” that the chair as such is ascertained, felt in all its “object-like” intensity. But even here, Whitehead would argue, its three- dimensional form cannot be disconnected from the quality of its form- taking. Form is less the endpoint than the conduit.
That form is held, to a certain degree, in abeyance. That the chair does not ultimately settle, once and for all in experience, does not mean that the form we know as “chair” is contained in an unreachable elsewhere. The object is the abeyance—the feeling-form (a form felt more than actual- ized) that cannot be separated out from the milieu, from the field that it co-activates: in this case something like the ecology of comfort, sitability, and desire to sit. Whether the desire to sit errs on the edge of sitability or leans toward plushness of comfort, the experience of chair is never a finite one, it is never contained by the dimensions of the object (or the subject) itself. The object, like the subject, is never it-self.
Art can make this more-than of the object felt. This happens through art’s capacity to bring event-time to expression. This crafting of the art of time involves the activation of time’s differential. This activation of the dy- namic difference, in the event, between what was and what will be, creates a memory of the future.3 This memory of the future, activated by the minor gesture, is a feltness, in the event, of a tendency. When art is at its most operational, this tendency does not settle in the object. It moves across it, pushing the now of experience in the making to its limit. Here, in the un- easy opening between now and now, art’s manner is felt.
All actualization is in fact differentiation. The in-act is the dephasing of the process toward the coming into itself of an occasion of experience. In this dephasing, the differences in kind between the not-yet and the will- have-been are felt, but only at the edges of experience. They are felt in the moving, in their activation of experience’s more-than.
To feel in the moving, to activate the more-than that coincides both with object likeness and relational fielding, is to experience the nonlinear- ity of time where nothing is yet, but everything acts.4 Here, there is no suc- cession in the metric sense. To act is to activate as much as to actualize, to make felt the schism between the virtual folds of duration and the actual openings of the now as quality of passage. On its way.
The emphasis on the ontogenesis of time is important: the quality of the way depends on there not being a notion of time or space that preexists the event of expression art creates. This is not to deny the past, but to say instead that what exists in experience is not a linear timeline but “various levels of contraction” (Deleuze 1991: 74). The manner of existence is how experience contracts, dilates, expands.
The manner of experience is felt qualitatively in its event-time. This qualitative expression of experience in the making is not “objective.” There is no perfect standpoint from which to explore it, and its effects are immea- surable. Event-time is in movement, lived, felt. How it connects to what will come to be is how it becomes what it is. In this sense, it is intuitive. The manner created in the practice of artmaking is intuitive chiefly in its way of taking and making time. The art of time is elasticity—not object, not genre, not form, not content. This is not to say that these aspects of ar- tistic practice cannot coincide with part of its process. It is to say that the eventness that is the art of time is before all else an elastic opening onto the qualitative difference intuition activates. The manner of art’s making creates robust effects that nonetheless are capable of generating infinite intuitive openings for art’s more-than.
The art of time is not about definitions so much as about sensations, about the affective force of the making of time where “we are no longer beings but vibrations, effects of resonance, ‘tonalities’ of different ampli- tudes” (Lapoujade 2010: 9; my translations throughout). Nor is the art of time about economy, about marking the worthiness of a given experience, the usefulness of time spent. “We must become capable of thinking . . . change without anything changing” (Lapoujade 2010: 12). Duration is time felt in the beyond of apparent change, independently of any notion of lin- ear succession.
Intuition never stems from what is already conceived. Wary of false problems, it introduces into experience a rift in knowing, a schism in per- ception. It forces experience to the limits not only of what it can imagine, but what it has technically achieved. For intuition is never separate from
technique. It is a rigorous process that consists in pushing technique to its limit, revealing its technicity. Technicity: the outdoing of technique that makes the more-than of experience felt.5
A memory of the future is the direct experience of time’s differential. “It is a question here of something which has been present, that has been felt, but that has not been acted” (Lapoujade 2010: 21–22). A memory not only of and for the human: a memory active in duration itself, a memory inseparable from duration’s relational movement. Not only of and for the human because duration is not strictly speaking of the human—“duration does not attach itself to being—or to beings, it coincides with pure becom- ing” (Lapoujade 2010: 24).
A memory of the future makes felt the smallest vibrational intervals— human and nonhuman—that lurk at the interstices of experience. Paired with the minor gesture, which assists in making these intervals take expres- sion, a memory of the future intuits them, activating their force of becom- ing by opening them to the untimeliness of their current rhythms. This is intuition: the captivation, in the event, of the welling forces that activate the dephasing of experience into its more-than. A memory of the future because this more-than cannot quite be captured, cannot be held in the presentness of experience. The memory of the future is an attunement, in the event, to futurity not as succession but as rhythm: the future pulses in experience in-forming. The memory of the future is the recursive experi- ence, in the event, of what is on its way. Déjà-felt.
Bergson calls the mechanism by which this future-feeling arises sym- pathy—sympathy not “of ” the human but with experience in the making. “We call intuition that sympathy by which we are transported to the in- terior of an object to coincide with what it has that is unique and, conse- quently, inexpressible” (Lapoujade 2010: 53). Sympathy as the motor of excavation allows the movement to be felt, opens experience to the com- plexities of its own unfolding.
What is intuited is not matter per se: “There is therefore no intuition of matter, of life, of society in and of themselves, that is, as nouns” (Lapoujade 2010: 56). There is intuition of forces, of qualities that escape the superficial interrogation of that which has already taken its place. Intuition is always and only compelled by what is on its way.
Deleuze sometimes speaks of the art of time as essence. Essence here has nothing to do with a stable quality. In his early work on Proust, Deleuze speaks of essence as the force of the as-yet-unfelt in experience. Essence is here everything it usually isn’t: it is not truth, or origin. Essence is the
ultimate difference in kind. Linked to art, essence for Deleuze speaks of the unquantifiable in experience, of that which exceeds the equivalence between sign and sense. “At the deepest level, the essential is in the signs of art” (1972: 13).
The signs of art do not convey meaning, they make felt its ineffability. The essential, the creative sign that does not represent, is a species of time, a durational fold in experience. Its quality of time cannot be abstracted from its coming-into-formation. The field it creates is analogous to its time, a time not of succession but a time-schism. Time, as Deleuze says, “le temps,” is plural.
A plurality of time in time multiplies experience in the now. This, Deleuze suggests, is what art can do. Art not as the form an object takes, but as the manner in which time is composed. Time, as the force of the differential, has effects. It creates a compositional matrix that transversal- izes the act and the in-act. In time, in the art of time, what is activated is not a subject or an object, but a field of expression through which a dif- ferent quality of experience is crafted. What art can do is to bypass the object as such and make felt instead the dissonance, the dephasing, the complementarity of the between, of what Deleuze calls the “revelatory” or refracting milieu (1972: 47). It does so when it is capable of making op- erative its minor gesture. The refraction produces not a third object but a quality of experience that reaches the edgings into form of the material’s intuition. When this occurs, matter intuits its relational movement, acti- vating from within its qualitative resonance an event that makes time for that which cannot quite be seen but is felt in all its uncanny difference. In- tuition, in its amplification of the technicity of a process, in its capacity to think the more-than as memory of the future, forecasts what Deleuze calls “an original time” which “surmounts its series and its dimensions,” a “com- plicated time” “deployed and developed,” a time devoid of preconceptions, a time that makes its own way (1972: 61).
Tuning into the art of time involves crafting techniques that open art to its minor gestures. It requires an attentiveness to the field in its formation. This attention is ecological, collective, in the event. It is relational, relation here understood as the force that makes felt the how of time as it co-com- poses with experience in the making. It is out of relation that the solitary is crafted, not the other way around: relation is what an object, a subject is made of.
This is what David Lapoujade means when he writes that “at the heart of the human there is nothing human” (2010: 62). The world is made of rela-
tion activated by intuition, felt sympathetically on the edges of experience. Here, at the edges, the more-than, the more-than-human tendencies for experience in the making, are lively. “We must move beyond the limits of human experience, sometimes inferior, sometimes superior, to attain the pure material plane, the vital, social, personal, spiritual planes across which the human is composed” (2010: 62). What is at stake in the intuiting of the more-than that art requires in order to activate a minor gesture is not the requalification of subject and object, artist and work, but the shedding of all that preexists the occasion in which the event takes place. Only this, Lapoujade suggests, makes the unrealizable realizable.
The memory of the future, the art of time—these are not quantifiable measures. These are speculative propositions, forces within the conceptual web of experience in the crafting that lurk on the edges of the thinkable. The art of time is the proposition art can make to a world in continual composition. It is also the proposition that opens art to its outside, to art as in-act, to practice as the crafting of emergent collectivities. Instead of immediately turning to form for its resolution, the art of time can ask how techniques of relation become a conduit for a relational movement that exceeds the very form-taking art so often strives toward. Instead of stall- ing at the object, art as manner can explore how the forces of the not-yet co-compose with the milieu of which they are an incipient mode. It can inquire into the collective force that emerges from this co-composition. It can develop techniques for intuiting how art becomes the basis for creating new manners, new modes of collaboration, human and nonhuman, mate- rial and immaterial. It can touch on the technicity of the more-than of art’s object-based propositions. It can ask how the collective iteration of a process in the making itself thinks, how it activates the limits of research- creation. It can ask what compels it to think, to become. It can inquire into the forces that do violence to the act of making time, and it can create with the unsettling milieu of a time out of joint, intuiting its limits, limits that often have little to do with form. In so doing, it can create a time for thought “that would lead life to the limit of what it can do,” complicating the very concept of life by pushing life “beyond the limits that knowledge fixes for it” (Deleuze 1983: 101). Art as technique, as way.
This way is relational. It is of the field, in the milieu. Art: the intuitive process for activating the relational composition that is life-living, for creating a memory of the future that evades, that complicates form. The art of time: making felt the rhythm of the differential, the quality of rela- tion. It is not a question, once again, of slow time, or quick time, of linger-
ing or speeding. It is a question of moving experience beyond the way it has a habit of taking, of discovering how the edges of life-living commingle with the force of that which cannot yet be perceived, but is nonetheless felt. The art of time involves taking a risk, no doubt, but risk played out differ- ently, at the level not of identity or being: risk of losing our footing, risk of the world losing its footing, on a ground that moves and keeps moving. Here, in the crafting of an undercommons where movement predates form, where expression remains lively at the interstices of the ineffable, the field of relation itself becomes “inventor of new possibilities of life,” possibilities of life we can only intuit in the art of time (Nietzsche 1996: 3).