If the art of time, or art as manner, invents new possibilities for life-living, it does so because of its continual investment in the question of practice. Practice, as that which moves technique toward technicity, cannot be re- duced to an individual. Practice is transversal to the field of experience.
Gilbert Simondon speaks of the individual as the point of inflection of a process of individuation. For Simondon, the individual is emergent, not preconstituted. In Simondon’s vocabulary, there is an intrinsic relationship between individuation (the process), the preindividual (the force of form), and the individual (the turning point that opens the process toward new individuations). The individual (the singularity of a process) is never the starting point—it is what emerges from the middling of individuation. The individual is how the event expresses itself, never what sets it in motion.
The individual, emergent from the process, cannot be fully abstracted from the force of the preindividual, the virtual excess or more-than that ac- companies all processes of force taking form. If the more-than of a process’s individuality accompanies all comings-to-form, this means that there is no phase of a process that isn’t actively in excess of the form it takes. A process is thus by its very nature collective. It is an ecology of practices. Whereas in many readings of collectivity, the multiple refers to the sum of individual parts (thereby subsuming the collective to the individuals within it), for Simondon individuation is always transindividual. Individuals do emerge from it, but the process can never be returned to the sum of its parts. Even the individual, when abstracted, cannot simply be reduced to a sum, for it continues to carry its preindividual charge, a charge that “contains poten- tials and virtuality,” which means it is susceptible to continuous changes in kind (Simondon 2005: 248; my translation).
Simondon uses the concept of the transindividual to describe the col- lectivity at the heart of all individuations, before and beyond any speciating into individuals. He mobilizes the transindividual to make apparent that any shift in the event is a shift in the ecology of which it is composed. The transindividual is the concept that most underscores the fact that all events are collaborative, participatory.
Participation is key to the art of time. In the oed’s normative account of art as object, art has two times: the time of making, and the time of the spectator’s appreciation of that making. Maker and spectator are the two limits of the process. While this account is complicated in participatory art and in collective artistic processes of all kinds, the question remains: to what degree does art retain this original dichotomy between maker and spectator/public/participant even in the cases where the participatory as- pect of the work is absolutely central to what makes the work work? To what degree does the maker continue to see themselves as the central pivot (or to what degree does the curator still see the maker as the central pivot)? To what degree do we continue to hold onto the idea of the artist as soli- tary genius?
When a process is delimited by the belief that there is a preexisting indi- vidual creating at its center, the collective becomes an afterthought. The participatory is left to the end, and with this, a decisive stage of the event is muted. In segregating participation from the work, in making partici- pation the afterthought of a practice already under way, what we do is set apart integral aspects of a process. The real work is seen as that which emerges before the event opens to the public. Practice thus separates itself from techniques for activation. When this happens, the participatory is set up in an uneasy dichotomy between what becomes the inside and the out- side of a process. An expectation emerges that places the public in a posi- tion of uneasy judgment. On the one hand, the public becomes the judge of the work, and on the other hand, the artist becomes judge of the pub- lic’s judgment. Even in the best of situations, a certain prescribed hierarchy cannot but emerge. Not only does this deaden the force of what a practice can do, it limits participation to a predefined definition of a public, which inevitably orients participation to human intervention, curtailing the more complex ecology of participation. As activator after the event, this human presence now has the task of bringing into being this new phase of the practice. While this can be successful in the sense that it can produce new modes of encounter that begin to make felt how the work is open to a re- orientation, too often in this context the conditions have not been created
that would allow the work to really extend beyond it-self. The concept of the transindividual makes felt the limitations of this view. From the per- spective of transindividuation, participation is always already there, active as the more-than at the heart of the event in its formation. Participation is not the way the outside adds itself to a process already under way, but the operational multiplicity of a practice in its unfolding. Participation is not what the artist wishes the public would do (I have certainly succumbed to this in my own practice), but the activity of the work’s potential as opened up by the process itself.6 Though this more-than, this participatory activity, is highlighted in participatory art, it is important to recall that all events are transindividual at their core, and by extension, all artistic processes are ca- pable of mobilizing this transindividual share.
Participation understood as immanent to the event raises a completely different set of expectations. Now, practice is considered immanent to the ecologies of an ever-shifting process. This radically alters the conditions of the work. Now, the problem is not how the participant can reanimate a pro- cess, but how the process itself as emergent practice can make felt its own participatory or transindividual nature. The practice shifts from seeing the object as endpoint to exploring how to prolong the art of time in the event such that new forms of collaboration can be engendered. Whether we are talking about the making of an artwork or the setting into place, through a process artfully in-act, of activist practices of emergent collectivity, what matters is less how the work defines itself than how it is capable of creating new conduits for expression and experimentation. Participation thus con- ceived is a putting into relation of an agencement, a mobilizing-toward, in the event, that doesn’t begin and end with the human individual.
Simondon writes: “Couldn’t we conceive of individuation as being . . . a process intrinsic to the formation of individuals, never achieved, never fixed, never stable, but always realizing, in their evolution, an individuation that structures them without eliminating the associated charge of the pre- individual, constituting the horizon of transindividual Being from which they detach themselves?” (2005: 13). The transindividual, it bears repeat- ing, “is neither raw sociality nor the interindividual; it presupposes a ver- itable operation of individuation from a preindividual reality” (2005: 13). Preindividual reality, the charge of the more-than that accompanies all pro- cesses of individuation, creates not an individual formed once and for all, but a metastability that expresses “a quantum condition, correlative of a plurality of orders of magnitude” (2005: 13). It is from the perspective of this metastability that the crafting, in an artistic process, of the art of participa-
tion can begin, a crafting that takes the event as participatory at its core, a process always in co-composition across the scales and times of its making.