Sympathy
Sympathy, for Bergson, is neither the benevolent act that follows the event nor the result of or a response to an already-determined action. Sympathy is the vector of intuition without which intuition would never be experi- enced as such. An event sympathetic to the force of its intuition becomes
capable of generating minor gestures that open the process to its technic- ity. Sympathy is what allows the event to express its more-than. It is what opens the event to what intuition has called forth: “We call intuition that sympathy by which we are transported to the interior of an object to co- incide with what it has that is unique, and, consequently, inexpressible” (Lapoujade 2008: 11).
It is impossible to think intuition and sympathy as wholly separate from one another, but neither should we consider them the same. Intuition touches on the differential of a process, and sympathy holds the contrasts in the differential together, such that, coupled with the minor gesture, the ineffable becomes expressive. Sympathy, allied with the minor gesture, is the conduit for the expression of a certain encounter already held in germ. Where intuition is the force of expression or prearticulation of an event’s welling into itself, sympathy, calling forth the minor gesture, is the way of its articulation.
Sympathy is a strange term for this process, so connected is it in our everyday language with the sense of applying a value-judgment to a pre- existing process. It may therefore not hold the power as a concept to make felt the force of what it does, or can do. I use it here as an ally to concepts such as concern and self-enjoyment in Whitehead, concepts that remind us that the event has a concern for its own evolution, and that this concern is key to the event outdoing itself. To make sympathy the driver of expression in the event is to bring care into the framework of an event’s concrescence, to foreground how intuition is a relational act that plays itself out in an ecology that cannot be abstracted from it. Intuition leads to sympathy— sympathy for the event in its unfolding. Without sympathy for the unfolding, the event cannot make felt the complexity of durations of which it is com- posed. Sympathy tends to the complexity of an intuition that lurks at the very edge of thought where the rhythms that populate the event have not yet moved into their constellatory potential.