The Way of Art
If the art of time is inextricably linked to practice as way, then practice and intuition must always be seen as co-operative: intuition is the fold in expe- rience that allows for the staging of a problem that starts a process on its way, or curbs a process into its difference, creating the germ for a practice. This raises the question of where intuition is situated is relation to prac- tice’s inherent double: participation. Is participation also intuitive? I would say that where art as event is mobilized through an intuitive process that
crafts and vectorizes the problem that will continue to activate it through- out its life, participation is the sympathy for this process. Participation is the yield in what Ruyer calls the “aesthetic yield.” It is the yield both in the sense that it gives direction to a process already under way and that it opens that process to the more-than of its form or content.
Aesthetic yield expands beyond any object occasioned by the process to include the vista of expression generated by practice as event. This is artfulness. Artfulness, the aesthetic yield, is about how a set of conditions coalesce to favor the opening of a process to its inherent collectivity, to the more-than of its potential. The art of participation is the capacity, in the event, to activate its artfulness, to tap into its yield. Artfulness is the force of a becoming that is singularly attendant to an ecology in the making, an ecology that can never be subsumed to the artist or to the individual participant. Artfulness: the momentary capture of an aesthetic yield in an evolving ecology.
The complex ecology of a process outdoing itself that is made opera- tional by the minor gesture is felt, in its intensity, in the artful: the art- ful is palpably transindividual. In the context of art as manner, artfulness is therefore closer to the differential than to any object, a differential that has been activated through the punctuality of a minor gesture’s movement through the process. This is not to suggest that the crafting of operational problems through intuition, the activation of minor gestures through sym- pathy for the event, the coming-into-expression of artfulness are quickly or easily done: when writing about intuition’s role in the crafting of a prob- lem, Bergson speaks of the necessity of a long camaraderie engendered by a relationship of trust that leads toward an engagement with that which goes beyond premature observations and preconceived neutralizing facts (in Lapoujade 2008: 12). Intuition is a rigorous process that agitates at the very limits of an encounter with the as-yet-unthought. Artfulness is the sympathetic expression of this encounter.
Tapping into the differential, artfulness opens the world to the kind of novelty Whitehead foregrounds—a novelty not concerned with the capi- talist sense of the newest new, but novelty as the creation of mixtures that produce new openings, new vistas, new complexions for experience in the making. This novelty can never be reduced to art as object: only the artful is truly capable of activating new mixtures.
Artfulness does not belong to the artist, nor to art as a discipline. If it need be attached to something, it could be said to be what the most op- erational process of research-creation seeks to actualize. Artfulness is the
operative expression of worlds in the making, the aesthetic yield that opens experience to the participatory quality of the more-than.
Artfulness emerges most actively in the interstices where the world has not yet settled into objects and subjects. One lively environment for artfulness is the field of direct perception I defined in the introduction as autistic perception. When there is artfulness, it is because conditions have been created that enable not only the art of time, but also the art of par- ticipation. Autistic perception, the direct participation, in the event, of its welling ecologies, is perhaps the most open register for the experience of the artful. For it is only when there is sympathy for the complexity of the welling event that the more-than of an emergent ecology can truly be per- ceived. When this happens, a shift is felt toward a sense of immanent move- ment—and the way at the heart of art is felt. It is not the object that stands out here, not the tree or the sunset or a painting. It is the force of immanent movement the event calls forth that is experienced, a mobility in the mak- ing that displaces any discrete notion of subjectivity or objecthood. This does not mean that what is opened up is without a time, a place, a history. Quite the contrary: what emerges at the heart of the artful in the rhythmic time of autistic perception is always singular—this process, this ecology, this feeling. It is how the constellation of emergent factors co-compose, how they are felt in their emergence, that make this singular event artful, an artfulness that will then, in retrospect, carry a history, a commitment to a cause, mobilizing a politics in the making.
Artfulness is an immanent directionality, felt when a work runs itself, or when a process activates its most sensitive fold, where it is still rife with intuition. This modality is beyond the human. Certainly, it cuts through, merges with, captures, and dances with the human, but it is also and always more-than human, active in an ecology of resonances that are most readily perceived by the neurodiverse. The process now has its own momentum, its own art of time, and this art of time, excised as it is from the limits of subject-centered volition, collaborates to create its own way. The force of art as way is precisely that it is more-than-human.7
Rhythm is key to this process that flows through different variations of human-centeredness toward ecologies as yet unnamable. Everywhere in the vectorizations of intuition and sympathy are durations as yet unfolded, expressions of time as yet unlived, rhythms still unexpressed. This is what makes an event artful—that it remains on the edge, at the outskirts of a process that does not yet recognize itself, inventing as it does its own way, a way of moving, of flowing, of stilling, of lighting, of coloring, of partici-
pating. This is how artfulness is lived—as a field of flows, of differential speeds and slownesses, in discomfort and awe, distraction and attention. Artfulness is not something to be beheld. It is something to move through, to dance with on the edges of perception where to feel, to see, and to be- come are indistinguishable.
What moves here is not the human per se, but the force of the direction the intuition gave the event in its preliminary unfolding paired with the force of a minor gesture. Techniques are at work, modulating themselves to outdo their boundedness toward a technicity in germ. Thought, intent, organization, consideration, habit, experience—all of these are at work. With them comes the germ of intuition born of a long and patient process now being activated by a sympathy for difference, a sympathy for the event in its uneasy becoming. To touch on the artful is to touch on the incom- mensurable more-than that is everywhere active in the ecologies that make us and exceed us.
Tweaked toward the artful in the process of making, art becomes a way toward a collective ethos. From the most apparently stable structure to the most mobile or ephemeral process, art that is artful activates the art of par- ticipation, making felt the transindividual force of an event-time that cata- pults the human into our difference. This difference, the more-than at our core, the nonhuman share that animates our every cell, becomes attentive to the relational field that opens the work to its intensive outside. This re- lational field must not be spatially understood. It is an intensive mattering, an absolute mobility that inhabits the work durationally. It is the art of time making itself felt.
A fielding of difference has been activated, and this must be tended. The art of participation involves creating the conditions for this tending to take place. This tending is first and foremost a tending of the fragile environ- ment of duration generated by the working of the work and activated by the minor gesture. A tending of the work’s incipient rhythms. I say fragile because there is so much to be felt in the process of a work’s coming to res- onance with a world itself in formation.
Sympathy makes felt how the tendency, the way, the direction or incipi- ent mobility, is itself the subject of the work. Sympathy makes tending the subject, undermining the notion that either the work or the human come to experience fully formed. Sympathy: that which brings the force of the more-than to the surface. That which makes felt how the force of experi- ence always exceeds the object. That which generates the opening for the minor gesture to take the work on its way.
Vectors
The art of participation, as mentioned above, does not find its conduit solely in the human. The artful also does its work without human inter- vention, activating fields of relation that are environmental or ecological in scales of intermixings that may include the human but don’t depend on it. How to categorize as human or nonhuman the exuberance of an effect of light, the way the air moves through a space, or the way one artwork catches another in its movement of thought?
Whitehead’s notion of vectors is useful in conveying a stronger sense of the more-than-human quality of experience artfulness holds. The vector, in Whitehead’s work, is defined as a force of movement that travels from one occasion of experience to another or within a single occasion. What is particular to Whitehead’s definition is the way he connects the vector to feeling. “Feelings are ‘vectors’; for they feel what is there and transform it into what is here” (1978: 87). It bears repeating that for Whitehead, feelings are not associated with a preexisting subject. They are the force of the event as it expresses itself. Understood as vectors, feelings have the force of a mo- mentum, an intuition for direction.
Whitehead’s theory of feeling catapults the notion of human-limited participation on its head. What the feeling has felt is how the event has come to expression. The subject, the individual, is its aftermath, how it will have come to know itself. The subject is not limited to the human—it is the marker of a dephasing, in Simondon’s terms, in the event. An occasion of experience always holds such a marker—once it has come to concres- cence, it will always be what it was. This is what Whitehead calls the su- perject, or the subject of experience. Making the subject the outcome of the event rather than its initiator reminds us that the subject of an event includes its vector quality—in Massumi’s terms, its thinking-feeling. The subject can never be abstracted or separated out from the vector quality, the “feeling-tone” which co-composed it.
The artful is the event’s capacity to foreground the feeling-tone of the occasion such that it generates an affective tonality that permeates more than this singular occasion. For this to happen, there has to be, within the evolution of an occasion, the capacity for the occasion to become a nexus that continues to have an appetite for its process. This does not mean to im- ply that the occasion will not perish. It simply emphasizes that in the per- ishing, there can be a qualitative shading that persists in occasions to come. As feeling-tone, vectors attune to the field of relation and tune it to its more-than. In so doing, they activate the collectivity of a given nexus of oc-
casions. What emerges, in the act, is what Whitehead would call a society, a becoming of a wider field of relation that outdoes the atomicity of the occa- sion’s initial coming into being. As Whitehead underscores, this is a rhyth- mic (and not a linear) process. It swings from the in-itselfness of a given actual occasion, where what is fashioned is simply what it is, to a wider field where the openness to fashioning remains rife with potential not only in the occasion at hand but across the wider expanse of the occasion’s nexus. The artful lives at this intersection.
Whitehead talks about this in terms of the creation of worlds—“feeling from a beyond which is determinate and pointing to a beyond which is to be determined” (1978: 163). To be determined here is resolutely to be in potentia—for how a feeling-tone vectorizes cannot be mapped in advance, and whether it lands in a way that activates a worlding cannot be predicted. But it can be modulated through the collaborative, participatory work of the minor gesture, and in the mix the artful can emerge.