Contemplation
A feeling-vector contemplates its passage, attending to the dance of an occasion coming into itself. The occasion cannot be abstracted from its feeling-tone. The contemplation of its becoming cannot be separated out from how it comes into itself.
Artfulness has no use-value—it does nothing that can be mapped onto a process already under way. It has no end point, no preordained limits, no moral codes. But it is conditioning. To say that a process is conditioning is to say that the enabling constraints of its emergence continue to facilitate a propitious engagement with the problem at hand, enabling the passage toward a field that yields. A practice does its work when this yield—al- ready present in germ in the initial problem that activated its process, in the intuition that tapped into how technique might become technicity—is made operational by a minor gesture. Without propitious conditions, the aesthetic does not yield, and the work or event cannot become in excess of the techniques that brought it into being.
Propitious conditions facilitate contemplation. Contemplation, under- stood as the act of lingering-with, of tending to a process, is a minor form of doing. It attends to the conditions of the work’s work. Contemplation is passive only in the sense that this attending provokes a waiting, a stilling, a listening, a sympathy-with. This sympathy is enveloped in the process, sympathetic to the ineffable share of experience emboldened by the minor gesture, attuned to the fragile art of time. Contemplation, operative at the
edges of perception where the conscious and the nonconscious overlap, activates times of its own making, sometimes even opening the neurotyp- ical to autistic perception. For contemplation, like intuition and its coun- terpart, sympathy, activates the differential of an event and, in so doing, becomes responsive to the subtle nuances of experience crafting itself.
Contemplation makes the artful felt. It does so in the event, in the un- easy balance between seeding a practice and becoming-with a practice. Here, in the midst of life-living, artfulness reminds us that the “I” is not where life begins, and the “you” is not what makes it art. Made up as it is of a thousand contemplations, the art of time reminds us that “we [must] speak of the self only in virtue of these thousands of little witnesses which contemplate within us: it is always a third party who says ‘me’” (Deleuze 1978: 75). This is why artfulness is rarer than art. For artfulness depends on so many tendings, so many implicit collaborations between intuition and sympathy. And more than all else, it depends on the human getting out of the way.
Artfulness: the way the art of time makes itself felt, how it lands, and how it always exceeds its landing.