A weather pattern is an artful expression of experience’s lively differential. Perhaps the mention of the smell of red moves you to a September after- noon in the northern autumn. Perhaps this connection is spurred by the memory of leaves turning red along the street where you lived, or by the memory of jumping in piles of those crisp leaves and feeling them carry your weight, or by recalling the feeling of a cool afternoon spent bagging leaves that left their scent on your hands. The smell of red is all of these things but none of them alone. The smell of red: a direct feeling of redness that folds into itself a living memory of a certain quality of air, of a certain angle of light, of a certain sense of place. The smell of red is less a recollec- tion of something specific than a sense of accompaniment, a living-again of the activity of a series coming together just this way. The smell of red is how the weather pattern of autumn makes itself felt.
Every weather pattern includes a minor gesture. The minor gesture is the pulse of a differential that makes experience in its ecology felt. It is the gen- erative force that opens the field of experience to the ways it both comes together and subtly differentiates from itself. In the tuning of the season to fall—which in Canada is also accompanied by a shift in the smell of earth
as the grass begins to dry out and the leaves fall on it and are stepped on, with a shift in light from the fullness of an immersive brightness to the becoming-angled light of winter, with a different sense of warmth on skin as the layers of cotton and wool and silk and leather compose with the winter body, with a shift in the feeling of ground as bare feet in sandals give in to the enclosure of boots—sensations, perceptions, feelings are active at the threshold of a shifting experience that cannot be reduced to one aspect of weather alone (the leaves, the sun, the earth). A weather pattern, when it emerges, is the activating of a certain minor tendency that resonates across time. This tendency is a gesture felt in the event both as absolutely singular and infinitely multiplicitous. The one and the many, the minor gesture has a quality of a resonant multiplicity singularly itself.
The minor gesture emerges from within the field itself: it is a gesture that leads the field of experience to make felt the fissures and openings otherwise too imperceptible or backgrounded to ascertain. A minor ges- ture is a gesture that tweaks the experiential to make its qualitative opera- tions felt, a gesture that opens experience to its limit.
A minor gesture cannot be known as such. It is what the minor does within the field of experience that makes its gesture felt. In the field of art, the artwork, the object, or even the effect created by an ephemeral com- position is not, in itself, a minor gesture. The minor gesture is what acti- vates the work under precise conditions, what makes the attunements of an emerging ecology felt, what makes the work work. It is what tunes the work to its processual force, to what Deleuze and Guattari call “material-forces” as opposed to “matter-form,” referring to how material is already imbued with force (1987: 95). Introducing into the work’s process a kind of contin- uous variability, a minor gesture makes times felt, but not time as measure: time as duration. This variability, in the event of a work’s becoming artful (a work’s faire oeuvre), makes felt how the work co-composes across the measured time of the object and the a-measure of event-time. The minor gesture foregrounds the art of time. The time of red in fall is felt not simply in calendar-time. It is not simply a feeling of “Oh, here we are again—it’s October.” The weather pattern comes all of a sudden, just this way, iter- atively and yet always as though for the first time. A weather pattern, as activated by a minor gesture, creates a direct feeling of variability, a direct experience, in this case, of the rhythm of time tuning to its difference, made active and palpable by how this red (leaf), this (fall) smell, this (October) slant of sun moves the feeling of summer into the feeling of fall. The minor gesture: not the leaf, not the color or the month or even the season, but the
internal variability, active in the differential, that tunes this particular ecol- ogy to the felt experience of time shifting.