The minor and the major are not opposed. They are variabilities in differ- ential co-composition. Speaking of minor literatures, Deleuze and Guattari write: “Minor languages are characterized not by overload and poverty in relation to a standard or major language, but by a sobriety and variation that are like a minor treatment of the standard language, a becoming-minor of the major language. . . . Minor languages do not exist in themselves: they exist only in relation to a major language and are also investments of that language for the purpose of making it minor” (1987: 104–105).
In the context of research-creation, the question is how a practice is capable of opening up the field such that minor gestures can emerge, this despite the value placed on the more recognizable and predictable grand gestures. Grand gestures carry with them a degree of the spectacular. They connect into concerns “of the day” in ways that further cement already exis- tent stakes. They give us categories to separate out “good” work from “bad” work, the valuable from the overlookable. They connect to what is consid- ered “current.” Both grand and minor gestures are active in and activated by the major languages that seek to frame them, such as the university and the contemporary art institution, and are often interwoven. Despite the ways the grand gesture overshadows the minor, minor gestures nonethe- less course through all events. It is therefore less a question of placing one gesture against the other than it is of exploring what kinds of conditions foster the capture of the minor by the major. The focus here is not on how to “make” a minor gesture, or how to resist a grand gesture, but on how to develop techniques that allow the singularity of a gesture that opens the work to its workings to come to the fore, how to invent techniques that re- sist immediate capture by the major.
The minor gesture acts as intercessor to the major, for the major is never fully itself: it is continuously cut through by flows that expose it to its mi- noritarian tendencies. In the context of the art exhibition, I would like to explore this question through the use of the multiple. I have come to won- der how the gestures both minor and grand are active within the specter of the multiple, an artistic tendency in the past century that has had a strange persistence in our contemporary artistic landscape. What does the fore- grounding, in an artistic context, of the multiple do? Is it that the seriality
of the multiple shifts the role of the object-as-such? Is it that the multiple activates space in a way that reorients the artistic experience? Does the making of the multiple, in cases where it involves a repetitive and almost ritualized crafting, create a particular sense of duration? I think here of the many hours in my own art practice spent making objects that resemble one another—the two thousand pieces of fabric, for instance, from my work Folds to Infinity, which took me seven years to sew—and I wonder to what extent it is less the object that matters than the ritualized gestures that compose it, hour after hour, year after year?1 Does this ritualizing activity facilitate the shift from the multiple to multiplicity, from the countable to the more-than?
This question takes me to the active passage between ritual and ritual- ity, rituality here connected to everyday repetitive practices that activate a minor transduction in the event, and ritual understood as the more formal- ized techniques carried through generations that mark rites of passage in a given culture, reorienting not only the individual but the collective as a whole. Rituality is the return, through repetition, to a task that, despite its habitual nature, is nonetheless capable of shifting the field of experience. The morning coffee that opens the way for the day to begin. The cleaning of the desk that creates the conditions for a day of writing. The breathing techniques, for the performer, that facilitate the shift from the street to the theater. Rituality, like ritual, performs a shift in register that opens the way for new modes of becoming. Is rituality also capable of generating a shift in kind that opens the everyday object to its more-than?
In formalized ritual, the ritual object usually has a role to play both within and beyond the ritual. The ritual object is like a time machine: in its ritual activation it energizes experience such that time is felt differently; in its more passive state, when it crosses the threshold back from the formal ritual into the everyday, it carries the traces of this activation in germ, con- tinuing to affect event-time. From the site of the collective ritual gathering to the site where the object is cared for, usually by an elder in the commu- nity, there is here a double sense of the collective’s commitment not simply to the object as such, but to what the object can do. This capacity to cross the threshold in two directions emphasizes how collectivity is never only active in its present iteration. Collectivity becomes an expression of how time folds.
Through this crossing of the threshold, the ritual object is the force that holds a community together, both past and future. The ritual object, both actively and passively, performs a passage that activates that collectivity,
making felt time’s spiral: despite their adherence to the inheritance of the past, rituals are ever-changing, altered by the conditions of futurities in the making. It is these futurities in the making, as mobilized by the force of form of the object, that continue to be felt in the object’s passage back to the everyday. This is the case even when that passage is virtual, where ob- jects are destroyed in the ritual. This potential, this force of form, is what is cared for by the community between rituals. This explains why the object is considered sacred even when in retreat. This is not usually the case with ob- jects activated in the gallery, particularly those objects that are seen as dis- cardable in advance—elastic bands, plastic cups, candies. The object in this context is only asked to cross the threshold in one direction. If the use of the multiple is in some sense invested in rituality, might there be something to be said for asking how the object can perform its return to the everyday? Can the object carry its more-than beyond the gallery setting? Could the object return to the pantry, to the cupboard, to the closet, to be used again, differently, instead of either going into storage or being discarded?
A ritual object is always singular-multiple in the sense that even if it is used alone, it carries the force of the differential of all past rituals and all future rituals. The object is in this sense less object than stand-in for the un- fathomable force of the not-yet. This not-yet is dynamic: it activates time, folding futurity into a pastness that pulls the present into itself. The ritual object is therefore not a thing in itself: its presence is not meaning-oriented in a semiotic sense. It is a carrying-over that acts as transducer for the ob- ject’s immanent force. The object can therefore never be simply reduced to its form. Nor can it be counted as such (as “this” one). The object is always many, always more than one. The ritual object is less a form than a material- force: it acts as the intercessor into the ritual that opens experience to its differential.
The ritual object’s role is to synergize the event, opening the field of experience to the emergent force of this singular collective setting in this singular spacetime of composition. The object is a dynamic form in the ac- tivation of what it will come to be through the rite. What the object will be- come, what it will be able to do, will depend on how the conditions for the event have been crafted. Techniques for crossing the threshold from the everyday into rituality and back are vital: if the conditions aren’t right, the transduction cannot occur. The crossing of the threshold must every time be invented anew. The ritual must be capable of activating not the object-as-such, the activity-in-itself, but the shift in register embodied in
the crossing of the threshold. The material quality of the object is impor- tant only insofar as it is able to carry experience elsewhere.
If art is one way that the crossing of the threshold occurs, how does the passage from the multiple to multiplicity occur? How does rituality as the force of form that opens the everyday to its more-than exact from ritual a bringing to expression of a minor gesture that is operative in the artistic realm? Can artistic objects carry the double-articulation of ritual objects? For without at least an echo of this double-articulation, it seems to me, the object risks operating only denotatively. The object risks remaining count- able, perceived only as the sum of its parts. What is of interest to me is what techniques are necessary to activate the more-than of objectness within the artistic context, what techniques are necessary to give the object the opportunity to take on the aura, as Walter Benjamin (2008) might say, of another kind of newly invented value, a value activated in the setting that transduces the everyday object into an artful one.2
Consider the work of Beijing-based artist Song Dong entitled Waste Not
(2005–). This work is described in the following way:
Waste Not [is] comprised of over 10,000 items ranging from pots and basins to blankets, bottle caps, toothpaste tubes, and stuffed animals collected by the artist’s mother over the course of more than five de- cades. . . . Waste Not follows the Chinese concept of wu jin qi yong or “waste not,” as a prerequisite for survival. The project evolved out of a family necessity and the artist’s mother’s grief after the death of her hus- band. . . . The centerpiece of the installation is the architectural armature of the building where the artist was born. A core theme of Waste Not is the idea that people, everyday objects and personal stories are not only spiritually rich in thematic material but recognizable evidence of the impact of politics and history on family life.3
Having exhibited in proximity to Song Dong’s work twice, both at the Sydney and the Moscow Biennales (2012, 2013, respectively), and having had my work next to Song Dong’s in the second of these biennales, I have had ample opportunity to explore, in his work, how the multiple might participate in a kind of ritual shift as it enters into the contemporary art exhibition.
Often, the object-as-multiple exhibited in the gallery is used to forecast something that happens elsewhere: as participants in the gallery we are in- vited to look at the wall label to understand the meaning of the objects in