front of us, and it is this added-value of the artist statement that gives us a sense of what the work is meant to denote. Outside of the problem of expla- nation, which to my mind too often reduces the force of art, denotation is not activation. What rituality does is activate. It does so outside of systems of value imposed on it from elsewhere: rituality is considered a practice pre- cisely because it is capable of inventing forms of value emergent from the ritual itself. In the case of artistic exhibitions, too often capitalist prestige- value frames the work. Just as it was important not to underestimate the crippling agenda of “the object of study” as foregrounded by Moten and Harney in relation to the undercommons, it is important not to deny the disabling force of the statement that promises to encapsulate and direct the art object. For if art needed to be explained in words, it wouldn’t need to be art. This is not to say, of course, that words cannot be art. But in this case, when language becomes artful, words operate differently. They are used not to denote but to make felt the beneathness of language in the crafting.
For an object to become artful in the context of the gallery, it must be capable of inventing its own value. Even more so, it must be capable of ac- tivating it. It cannot therefore simply be a comment on the art market, or a comment on culture.4 While it can comment, and art often does in import- ant and unique ways, it has to create a site of encounter that makes the cul- tural field tremulous, opening it to its minor gestures. The object becomes artful when its value is truly invented in its crossing of the threshold, in the passing from one site to another, and when this value continues to meta- morphose in the field of variation the old-new object creates. To become artful, the object must be capable of carrying the potential for variation.
In the case of Song Dong’s Waste Not, I would say that the minor ges- ture was more palpable at the Sydney Biennale, where his work extended beyond the walls of the gallery into the outdoor space. At the Moscow Biennale, where his work felt contained by a wall of cardboard boxes that served to mark the edge of the collection, the effect was less operative. Even though in Sydney the participant saw the same objects and was simi- larly kept from handling them or altering their taxonomy, the space itself seemed to activate a pull from object to object, and from object to the empty frame of Song Dong’s mother’s house. This pull activated the in-