(opposite) Figures 3.1–3.3 Song Dong, Waste Not (details), 2013, installation at Carriageworks, Sydney. Exhibition presented with 4a Centre for Contemporary Asian Art in association with Sydney Festival. Courtesy of the artist & Tokyo Gallery + btap. Photographs by Vin Rathod, Through Vin’s Lens.
terval of objectness, opening the multiple to multiplicity and thus making felt the uncountability of the excess at the heart of the project. In Moscow, however, the minor gesture seemed to lay more dormant. This may have been because the boundary created around the work kept the participant firmly within the work’s maze, and kept the work itself from engaging rela- tionally with the other works in the exhibition.
To activate its artfulness, the object must be capable of more than its initial transduction from the everyday into the gallery. It must continue to vary and its variation must be serial, in the sense that each object-variation must remain lively with the incipient memory and the imperceptible traces of its passage from one site to another, the sites not only physical, but also conceptual, sites of memory, of anticipation, of attunement. Across the series, in the iteration that tunes from the multiple to multiplicity, a ten- sion appears that makes felt the complexity not of number but of multi- plicity as a variation on itself. All becoming, as Deleuze and Guattari write, is minoritarian, and all becoming is rife with the tension that comes with variation. How can the gallery setting imbue the object with the same kind of internal variability?
A minor gesture is a living variation. For the object to become artful, conditions must be created that open the event to variability. What matters is not what the object represents, but what it can do. To foreground what an object can do involves activating its ecology of practices, opening it to its differential. To do so, it is imperative, it seems to me, to include, to make participatory, the ecology of which it is part. This ecology is as much at the heart of the object “itself ” as in its seriality. Too often, the art exhibition holds the object to itself as though it were internally bound. In a similar gesture, it foregrounds individual work instead of activating the environ- ment, or foregrounding the relational force between works. Organizing an exhibition according to the emergent ecologies it might call forth as a mo- bile environment might be one way of making operative immanent minor gestures, in return encouraging the participant, the spectator, the visitor to the gallery, to see art not as a denotative, individual statement, but as an emergent collective articulation that includes what an object can do.
Australian-based Malaysian artist Simryn Gill’s work Pearls (1999–) is a strong example of how the minor gesture can operate in contemporary art. This work is based on the gift. The gift, in Pearls, involves much more than a simple exchange: Gill asks us for a book that we are moved to give her. While it seems clear that the book should hold meaning for us, Gill does not make this a spoken demand. She simply invites a friend, an acquain-
tance, a fellow artist, to give her a book. This book is then carefully and meticulously torn and pasted to create a string of pearls, which the original owner of the book receives as a gift. Gill keeps the spine. The exchange may seem simple—an object into an object, an object for an object. But try to give away a book, to be ripped, that has followed you, stayed with you, that includes margin notes, that has made you think in ways you couldn’t otherwise have thought, that you’ve returned to either in fact or in spirit over the years, that has become a true friend. This is not an easy task. For three years I’ve wondered about giving up my first copy of Le petit prince with my childhood drawings in the margins, and I still haven’t been able to let go of it. Gill knows that the exchange is complex. She is aware that what is moving across is not simply a book for a necklace. What is moving is at once book and the force of memory as it is awakened and created anew in the act of considering the giving-over. The object will not return. What will return will be variation itself.
Proposing variation not on the object per se but on the very quality of its potentializing materiality is what is at stake in Pearls. With the passage from one to the other, what is foregrounded is the quality of the object’s material-forces rather than its matter-form. Like a shaman in a ritual pro- cess, Gill is aware of the power of the act of taking that which cannot be re- turned in the same way as it was given. This is the work of Pearls. What Gill does with the act of variation is make felt the inevitable transformation that always occurs in the sharing. What is given becomes entwined with the be- lief that the object is always more-than itself. We give the very transforma- tion that is already at the heart of the object. The Benjaminian aura is given and given back, transformed, this in the realm, as Benjamin would say, of both voluntary and involuntary recollection. “Where there is experience in the strict sense of the word, certain contents of the individual past combine with material of the collective past. The rituals with their ceremonies, their festivals . . . [keep] producing the amalgamation of these two elements of memory over and over again. They [trigger] recollection at certain times and [remain] handles of memory for a lifetime. In this way, voluntary and unvoluntary recollection lose their mutual exclusiveness” (1973: 113).
Simryn Gill works with the ethos of care this passage of the aura entails, careful and caring in the act of taking care of the book’s variation in trans- formation. The minor gesture here is the activation of a relational field that includes the book and the beads but also exceeds both of them, opening them up to the vectorization of their incipient tendencies, tendencies that now include, with the memories of the past in the present, the words and