pages coming-into-variation as beads and the felt weight of that labor in the form of the necklace.
It is interesting to note that in A Thousand Plateaus one of the few men- tions of “minor art” is related to jewelry. Deleuze and Guattari write:
Jewelry has undergone so many secondary adaptations that we no lon- ger have a clear understanding of what it is. But something lights up in our mind when we are told that metalworking was the “barbarian,” or nomad, art par excellence, and when we see these masterpieces of minor art. These fibulas, these gold or silver plaques, these pieces of jewelry, are attached to small movable objects; they are not only easy to trans- port, but pertain to the object only as object in motion. These plaques
constitute traits of expression of pure speed, carried on objects that are themselves mobile and moving. The relation between them is not that of form-matter but of motif-support, where the earth is no longer any- thing more than ground (sol), where there is no longer even any ground at all because the support is as mobile as the motif. . . . Regardless of the effort or toil they imply, they are of the order of free action, related to pure mobility, and not of the order of work with its conditions of grav- ity, resistance, and expenditure. (1987: 401)
The pearls are jewels in this sense: their value alive in the transduction they embolden. For they are mobile in their dynamism. Their decorative quality does not reduce them (as the art world often suggests as regards art that can be worn) but brings to them a mobility that can move them beyond the institution back into the everyday. As objects-in-variation, they open the field of contemporary art to its uneasy outside, to that uncertain inter- stice between art and craft, between what is displayed and what is worn, between what is seen and what is felt. The aura they carry over is subtle, an aura that would probably be neutralized should the beads simply be hung on the gallery wall in multiples, as contemporary art is wont to do. For these beads are for wearing, for moving, for giving, for becoming-with the multiplicity that is occasioned in the act of fashioning the body, fashioning the world. This fashioning is key to their variation-on-potential.
Minor gestures trouble institutional frameworks in the same way they trouble existing forms of value. This is their potential: they open the ar- tistic process beyond the matter-form of its object, beyond the prestige value that comes with all of the artistic conclusions that surround us.5 The minor gesture is the felt experience of potential, the force that makes felt how a process is never about an externally situated individual, but about the ecology it calls forth.
When speaking of minor literature, Deleuze and Guattari begin with the proposition that what characterizes minor literatures is that “everything in them is political” (1986: 17). What they mean by this is that the minor ges- ture is always already a collective expression, collective in the sense that it emboldens the art of participation. Against the major tendency of seeking mastery, the minor gesture pulls the potential at the heart of a process into a mobile field replete with force-imbued-material that is capable of mak- ing felt not only what the process can do but how the ecology of which it is part resonates through and across it. Always alive with a certain quality of transduction, the process clinched by a minor gesture is one that makes the threshold between process and object/effect felt.
ENTERTAINING THE ENVIRONMENT