In 2006, I began work on a piece entitled Weather Patterns: Entertaining the Environment. This artwork, which is still evolving, is less about creating a finished work than about putting into play a proposition: how to work with different technologies to activate a field of relation that, while it includes the human, does not depend on the human. When I began the work, I hadn’t considered the concept of a minor gesture, but now I can see that it was indeed the question of the minor gesture that was at work from the very outset: what would a work be like that was capable of opening up the question of interaction and, ideally, of emergent relation, toward a more- than-human perspective? What would a work look like that was capable of making felt something akin to the reddening of time of a summer tending to autumn? How would a work work whose main concern was how the field of relation itself touches the limit of the sensible? What would a work be that was capable of awakening and keeping alive the intensive variabil- ity of the artful?
This is not to dismiss the human’s role in the field of artistic participa- tion, but to recognize that the weather pattern does not primarily express itself in or via the human. Weather patterns move across experience in the making in a field of relation activated in the register of the more-than human in the ecology of practices generated by the variational field itself. What would a work feel like whose mandate it was not to entertain us, but to entertain the already entertaining environment? To attend to this ques- tion is to open up the issue not only of where the human is situated in the process of emergent fieldings activated by weather patterns, but to inquire into the very limits of interactivity. For there remains a tendency, within the very concept of art-based interaction, to place the human in the center as the arbiter of process. To conceive of a work that resisted this tendency, to emphasize the transindividual share foregrounded in the art of partici- pation, would necessitate a focus directed toward the environment’s own capacity to make felt the complex ecologies at work. Such an inquiry, it seemed to me, would not only open up the question of how an artwork can create the conditions for a participation generated as much by the environ- ment itself as by human engagement, but would also provide a stronger sense of how, even when the participatory component of a work is led by human intervention, much more than human agency is at work.
Weather Patterns began with a textile collection entitled Volumetrics. Conceived in relation to my other textile collection, Folds to Infinity, Vol-
umetrics is a series of sixty large rectangular black pieces of fabric, each of which has rare earth magnets sewn into its surface. These magnets, as in the Folds to Infinity collection, encourage connection across pieces as well as enabling intuitive practices of folding (a folding that occurs despite the participant as the magnets connect to each other across a single piece of fabric or between two or more pieces). In addition to the magnets, elastic cord is woven through buttonholes with toggles to stop the cord. With the magnets, this allows for the creation of complex shapes. Snaps and zippers are also sewn into several of the pieces, as well as a few buttons. All of these connective propositions work together as an invitation for a hands-on par- ticipation that can lead to the creation of both garments and, in the best- case scenario, mobile architectures.6
Initially conceived as a way to open the Folds to Infinity collection to a more volumetric composition (the fabrics used in Folds to Infinity are diaphanous and smaller and tend to be used in superposition), Volumet- rics was exhibited in its first iteration as a complement to Folds to Infinity. What I soon found, however, was that Volumetrics was incapable of doing the complex work I had come to expect from the Folds to Infinity collec- tion. In the context of a participatory proposition, Folds to Infinity, in both its iterations as Slow Clothes and Stitching Time, was easily approachable, mostly due, I think, to its brilliant color, enticing fabrics, and beautiful but- tons. All kinds of people gravitated toward it and generally seemed open to exploration, either creating garments or moving the fabric to activate the architecture of the environment. This participation was also activated perceptually through the field effect created by color and light, an effect that made felt the shifting affective tonality of the environment. This em- boldened the work to become a choreographic object: with participation, both perceptual and physical, the work became capable, in several of its iterations, of tuning movement to shifting spacetimes of composition.7 Be- coming choreographic, the work was capable of making felt its own art of participation, its transindividual share, while co-composing with actual participants in the space.
Volumetrics, on the other hand, seemed to read more as a stable object, its black volumes deadening participation. Perhaps it was its blackness, per- haps it was the large size of the individual pieces or their weight, or perhaps it was how the pieces read in the context of contemporary art’s interest in the minimal (often untouchable) object, for the black volumes do on their own give off a sense of elusiveness that the Folds to Infinity collection does not. Whatever the reason, it was noteworthy that on the few occa-