sions when the two collections were exhibited together, the black volumes tended to be left untouched. This led to the slow incubation of the problem of how to generate a weather pattern with Volumetrics, one that included the human but didn’t depend on human participation.
Weather Patterns is a work in progress precisely because such events that are ecological at their core and resonant in excess of human participation are extremely difficult to actualize. The past five years have been a time of continuous experimentation in this regard. The first stage involved sewing conductive fabric into a third of the pieces of the Volumetrics collection and connecting the conductive fabric to wireless proximity sensors also sewn into the fabric. This was done to make the fabric responsive to its environment without needing to be directly handled. The idea was that
movement in the proximity of the conductive fabric would generate a data stream that could be transduced into sound, activating an emergent sound- scape in conversation with the incipient mobility of the environment itself. With the collaboration of artists Nathaniel Stern, Bryan Cera, Mazi Javidi- ani, and Andrew Goodman, this allowed us to extend the notion of partic- ipation beyond human tactile exploration of the fabric to how field effects (air movements, electromagnetic current) might tune the environment. The performance of the work would be measured according to its capacity to field subtle changes generated by the work over time.
In the second iteration of this process of experimentation (of which there have been five so far), fifty analog speakers were connected to a max msp patch and distributed in the space, activated in relay. In a third itera- tion, light and movement sensors were placed in the environment, multi- plying the conditions through which sound data was transduced from the environment into the software. Tiny computer fans were also mobilized in this iteration, though never successfully connected to the system. Nonethe- less, they provided a complexity to the field through the background sound and subtle air currents their movements produced. A future proposition would be to link the air current to the responsive environment.