Figure 3.7 Erin Manning, Volumetrics, 2006. Photograph by Brian Massumi.
The mobilization of Weather Patterns over a series of gallery exhibi- tions, first in Milwaukee (with Nathaniel Stern and Bryan Cera), then in Melbourne (with Andrew Goodman), and finally in Philadelphia, where artists Megan Bridge and Peter Price experimented with it choreographi- cally, allowed us to experience how data—as produced not only by human movement but by all movement—might enable us to experience a qual- ity of environmental relationality that was otherwise imperceptible. This is what I am calling “entertaining the environment,” entertainment here linked strongly to Whitehead’s notion of “presentational immediacy,” the experience of qualitatively felt effects in a relational field.8
When artwork entertains the environment, the proposition is that there is an awareness in the field of relation to how the environment is attuned to the gestures active within its ecology. From these exhibitions, a number of questions emerged: How do we make felt, for the human participant, a minor gesture that remains largely imperceptible? Does the work do its work if it cannot be readily experienced as such by the human?
When a minor gesture opens the way for an experiential variation on the object, what emerges is artful. Artfulness is the expression, in a time of its own making, of the processual force of what art can do. It takes seri- ously the how of the object’s variability, taking as art’s measure not how it fits within the matrix of what is currently on exhibition in art circles, but how a process’s minor gestures generate the more-than of art-as-object or effect.
The artful is not about a form, or a content—it is the capacity to make felt, in the event-time of a work’s composition, how an object is already a field of relation, a differential variability. For the artful, alive with minor gestures, and engaged in the rituality of the crossing of the threshold in more than one direction, is always already collective in the sense that the how of its process is an uncountable, unparsable multiplicity. The artful celebrates the art of participation, making felt how an ecology can become expressive, and tuning that making-expressive toward the generation of an aesthetic yield, aesthetic in its original definition of making sensible, mak- ing felt.
Weather Patterns is in progress because it fails more often than it suc- ceeds. Glimpses of the artful have been generated in each of the exhibi- tions of the work, but as an artistic experience, it remains tentative. This is also what keeps it alive. For the tentative is replete with tendency, open to vectors that activate the differential from which the minor gesture can