Figures 3.8–3.9 Weather Patterns, Entertaining the Environment
(Phoenix Gallery, Melbourne, 2012). Photographs by Brian Massumi.
be crafted. Amplifying tendency in the spirit of the tentative, what is most interesting to me about Weather Patterns as it has evolved is its capacity to open itself to problems that invite the process to linger. What has become key to the work is not so much the outcome (though how the work indi- viduates in various exhibitions is central to how it continues to resolve its conditions of emergence), but what kinds of minor gestures are generated in the process. This is why, in 2012, I decided to begin to send the work (as a proposition-on-variation more than as an object or a set of objects) to different artists—including, so far, choreographer Megan Bridge, sound artist Peter Price, and designer/scholar Samantha Spurr. The work, in its current iteration, has also returned to Nathaniel Stern and Bryan Cera, who will mount it in the context of their own collaborative work, thereby giv- ing it a different inflection. Creating in a crowd, all of us taking as points of departure our own differing approaches to making a work work, makes even more apparent the inherent variability at the heart of the process of creating a weather pattern.
I outline this messy and nonlinear process of making a work work to suggest that many of us who are intuitive to art’s problems are in fact en- gaged in the making of weather patterns and the activating of their minor gestures. For works that emerge out of an intuition that seeks to activate the art of time are works that trouble, complicate, nuance, embolden how experience is felt both for the human and beyond the human in the more- than human realm, the realm that connects to and composes with the human but is not limited to it. Such works, it seems to me, are especially strong when they take as their governing mandate the problematization of the interactive gesture itself, asking how it might be possible to make felt threshold transitions occasioned not only by the human participant, but by the wider environmental ecology, hence making the move from inter- action to relation. How to make felt the relational field that is embodied in the shifting of light, the rhythm of tone, how to make felt the field effect of color? How to move the participant beyond volition to the experiential realm, both nonsensuous (alive in the fielding of involuntary memory) and sensuous (transducing into the now of event-time), where the conscious meets the nonconscious and new nonvoluntary, unpredictable, generative movements can be crafted?
WEATHER PATTERN