A weather pattern is brought into experience through a minor gesture. When the artwork exceeds its status as an object, when the work becomes relational rather than simply interactive, when there really is a sense that what is at stake is more-than the sum of the artwork’s parts, a minor ges- ture has been generated. This minor gesture, present in each of the fields of action the work emboldens, is not the work as such: it is how the work works. Here, where entertainment exceeds human-centered narratives of consumption so aligned with capitalism, something else is at stake: enter- tainment is distributed across the ecology of experience. The major lan- guage of matter-form, the object, the gallery itself, is tampered with, and what emerges is the force of a gesture that opens art to the artful.9
Weather patterns are serial processes. Their beginnings and ends are dif- ficult to ascertain. They are less directional than ecological. Their effects are distributed. None of these qualities make them ideal for the scene of contemporary art, a scene too often constrained by the bounds of what is already recognizable, what is already imaginable.10 Like the academic insti- tution, the scene of contemporary art has much experience in generating false problems and in posing badly stated questions. Weather patterns, like the minor gestures that inform them, invent both modes of thought and modes of perception. In this sense, they are what Deleuze and Guattari call “collective assemblages of enunciation” (1986: 18). They are field expres- sions that intensify experience without reducing it to a single point in time or space. They are not metaphors but metamorphoses, active transducers of the everyday in the everyday.
When a technological process is used to activate a weather pattern, as in the most recent iterations of the work entitled Weather Patterns, what is necessary, it seems to me, is a sense of how the technological itself can op- erate as a minor gesture. How can technology activate a field effect without making the field effect about the technology itself? How can technology be used to make mobile the sense of time in the event, the time of the event? How can technology be mobilized to open the event to both its individua- tion and its transduction? How can technology activate something akin to the aura of the ritual event in the artistic setting, an aura capable of opening the event to its involuntary memory. For, as Michael Taussig writes, “it is involuntary memory which composes, no less than it is composed by, cor- respondences, and provides the home for aura” (1995: 381). How can tech-