far exceed representation. They are productive. It is in this sense that they are procedural.
Arakawa and Gins define procedural architectures as “overlapping tis- sues of density” (Gins 1994: 2). Architecture understood this way must be considered beyond the built environment. Procedural architecture is “a world-constituting procedure.”1 It builds worlds more than buildings, its mandate to directly cleave the biosphere, or, in Arakawa and Gins’s vocab- ulary, “to bioscleave.” The bioscleave procedural architecture fashions never stops cleaving. It is an active, procedural milieu that remains in-act as a per- sistent reminder that what sites life also cleaves the environment, opening it to its differential. Cleaving cuts open the field of experience. This cut has
the effect of reorienting the field: the cleave, like decision in Whitehead, is the decisional force that activates, that tweaks the in-act toward the punc- tual creation of life-living.
A procedural approach depends on the rigor of the proposition that sets it in motion. An architecture is procedural if it is capable of opening up a field of relation or an emergent ecology such that it can activate the con- ditions for the continued interplay that keeps life in the process of self- invention. Most architectures, Arakawa and Gins argue, do anything but, deintensifying life rather than opening it to its potential difference. We fol- low their routes, we embrace their limits, and in so doing our lives become predictably oriented by them. What if instead we built toward the density of experience, beginning not with form but with textures of life-living, em- bracing the force of form that is the lively interstice of environment and body? What if, instead of assuming that the built environment contained the preconstituted body, we interested ourselves in the amalgam of their co-constitution?
The challenge is that the procedures of a procedural architecture must continuously be reinvented to stay apace with the architecting of experi- ence. No procedure is failsafe, nor does one procedure work in all similar circumstances. A procedure must be crafted with care, must be relevant to the conditions already at hand, must be capable of activating the ecology of which it is part, must have enough longevity to leave a trace. More pro- cedures fail than succeed. But this is part of their necessity, that they put us in the way of experimentation.
A procedure is always connected to a constraint. At its best, this con- straint is enabling. It asks of habit that it activate its conditions of possi- bility. From here, the procedure pushes possibility to its limit, excavating at the edges where possibility and potential meet. This is where the procedure most often fails: habits die hard, including our habits of reconstructing the already-known. A procedural architecting will not be capable of opening up the field of experience if the manner of opening contains the habit fully formed. What is essential is to work from the habit’s edging into experi- ence, experimenting with the ways a habit’s repetition activates minor de- partures from the norm, keeping in mind that the only habit which holds on absolutely to its form is the habit of reducing experience to the what was. With the work of Rei Kawakubo, I want to explore how procedural ar- chitecture activates minor gestures within fashion. Where the proposition, following Whitehead, is the lure that gets a process on its way, and the minor gesture is the activating force in the field of relation of the work’s
working, the procedural is the following-through of a set of conditions toward repeatable difference. The procedural, as Arakawa and Gins define it, is what gives the minor gesture consistency without allying it to precom- posed models of formation. For the procedural is not a set of instructions. While instructions are usually organized according to a linear set, the pro- cedure is more diagrammatic, in the Deleuzo-Guattarian sense: it activates zones of intensity in fields of relation and directs a follow-through that re- intensifies at every turn. Where instructions are reiterable in their form and content, producing not difference but repetition of the same, the procedure does quite the opposite: it sets a path in motion that asks to be returned to, toward different results. “Let the word ‘procedure’ stand for that which baf- fles us as to what it is even as it brings us world” (Arakawa and Gins 2011).