In the everyday, habit operates as a choreographic tool. It directs our move- ment, organizes our time, makes experience predictable, framing it in ways that are usually associated with comfort and well-being, two concepts that make Arakawa and Gins highly suspicious. For well-being and comfort too often keep us in the same place, a place we return to daily without much thought, a place that doesn’t encourage experimentation. This place, framed as it is by the architectures that surround us, is anything but proce- dural, they argue.
Despite the focus in Arakawa and Gins’s work on the necessity to break habit, to open experience to invention and surprise, there is nonetheless in their work an attentiveness to what else habit can do. For habit, as both Arakawa and Gins and Kawakubo recognize, is a mutable force. Habit di- rects our movements, constraining other tendencies. These other tenden- cies, constrained as they are, can be said to still be operative in germ at the heart of habit. The challenge is to make these minor tendencies opera- tional, thereby opening habit to its subtle multiplicity and exposing the fact that habit was never quite as stable as it seemed.
In creating conditions for new modes of existence, in the crafting of a procedural architecture, habit should therefore not be fully discarded. A procedural architecting must look at habit’s repetitive pathways to see how they subtly diverge from what is perceived as their assigned choreography, finding within repetition the difference that keeps habit inventive. This dif- ference, alive as it is with minor tendencies that keep habit from ever fully reproducing itself, is what procedural architectures make operative. As a
world-constituting procedure, procedural architecture works from these minor tendencies to extend experience to its full potential.
This is another way of saying that what procedural architecture does, before creating architectures, is create modes of existence. Modes of exis- tence, as Étienne Souriau defines them, are not states but passages. They are the transitory and fragile interstices of experience in the making.
Modes of existence neither emerge from nor belong to a subject. They do not define existence: they propose it. On a continuum with the White- headian actual occasion, modes of existence are ecologies that activate a field of concern. This concern is active in the event itself, a concern for the world in its unfolding.
Modes of existence are less species than speciations, where speciation is understood as an emergent field of relation.2 They are speciations because they don’t fit into existence preformed but activate the minor gestures of its most potentializing edgings into experience, pushing existence to its in- tensive limit. They are speciations because they don’t name a state, but ac- tivate ecologies that in turn activate differential tendencies in the milieu of their co-composition. Modes of existence act, cut, reorient: they are world- constituting procedures.
Modes of existence are precarious. They emerge as they are needed and then, like actual occasions, they perish. It is not their stability that defines them, but the persuasiveness with which they affect all that comes into contact with them. This persuasiveness is what makes them compelling. Their persuasiveness is an active participant in the event of their coming- to-be.
Modes of existence come into being through enabling constraints. They emerge out of a necessity that has a procedural tending. This necessity is enabling in the sense that it provokes new forms of process, but con- strained in the sense that it occurs according to the limits of this or that sin- gular junction. Each time a mode of existence comes into being, it does so “just this way,” in direct accordance with how the constraint was enabling in this singular set of conditions.
For Rei Kawakubo, crafting enabling constraints for each new process is key to the techniques that make up her procedural architecting of expe- rience. Her practice involves continuously experimenting with constraints she sets in place to see where else the process can lead, not only as regards the potential of the fabric she works with, but also with respect to the very tissues of density she takes as her matter of concern. For Kawakubo as for Arakawa and Gins, what is at stake is not simply the form the product takes.
What matters is how the constraint embedded in the procedure becomes enabling of new processes.
Body and environment are, for Kawakubo, complicit partners in the re- orientation of what textile can do. They are her palette. But neither is pre- defined, and importantly, she does not pretend to know, from one process to another, where the details of their co-composition will lead her: each new process requires a new inquiry into the body-environment constella- tion. With this as the directive that drives her practice, Kawakubo invests in the field of relation, the orientation of her practice always transdisciplinary. In the ecology of practices, she requires that her process be invented each time anew through an emergent activation situated in the event of crea- tion itself.
Kawakubo emphasizes that the intuitive problem, the problem that opens experience, cannot be searched out from beyond the bounds of a given process, cannot be found in a world preconstituted. She writes: “Going around museums and galleries, seeing films, talking to people, see- ing new shops, looking at silly magazines, taking an interest in the activi- ties of people in the street, looking at art, travelling: all these things are not useful, all these things do not help me, do not give me any direct stimula- tion to help my search for something new. And neither does [the] fashion history. The reason for that is that all these things above already exist.”3 Kawakubo is not inspired by the already existent configurations that make up our worlds. She wants to create at their interstice, in their coming-to-be: “In order to make this ss14 collection, I wanted to change the usual route within my head. I tried to look at everything I look at in a different way. I thought a way to do this was to start out with the intention of not even trying to make clothes. I tried to think and feel and see as if I wasn’t mak- ing clothes.”4 The enabling constraint here is clear: to work from the per- spective of a new way of seeing, in the event. The intuition will emerge in the process, creating the problem in the art of time if Kawakubo doesn’t assume she already knows what fashion can do.
For Kawakubo, what is at stake is making itself, not the making of the object. The object does not define the purpose and cannot be subsumed to it. What she strives toward is the creation of a series of enabling constraints for each process, constraints that, in the best-case scenario, are procedural enough to create new modes of existence. Hers is a procedural fashion- ing: each new process invents procedures that push the very idea of what a garment can be to its limit. Kawakubo seeks not the final form, not the production of a neutral layer for a preexisting body, but the creation of a
propositional field that activates what a body can do in its co-constitution with an emergent environment.
This process of engaging with the working of the work is what Souriau calls “faire oeuvre.” Like the mode of existence, which composes in the between of existence’s necessity, or existence’s persuasiveness, the oeuvre à faire is the force of making that only knows itself as such after the fact, in the tense of “Oh! This is what I was looking for!” (Souriau 2009: 109).
The not-knowing-in-advance is part of the procedure. For knowing is always to some degree reducible to the already-known. Habit will play a part in the process, but it must be procedurally tweaked. What emerges from the process must push habit to its limit.
The habitual carries within itself a certain degree of belief. The ecol- ogy of practices that is fashion believes, for instance, that it makes sense that a dress follow the shape of what we perceive as our body-envelope. This, we have come to learn, is how to clothe a body. We know, of course, that there have been other habits within fashion that have involved cutting cloth to accentuate parts of the body in ways that are today unimaginable.5 We know that historically the body-envelope has shifted in its proportions and emphases. We know that, despite the growing homogeneity of fashion across cultures, there remain cultural differences in regard to cuts, fabrics, and habits of dressing. But nonetheless, we tend to dwell within the realm of the already imaginable.
Certainly a quota of the unimaginable does grace the seasonal fashion runways. But this is the crux: the unimaginable is only to be paraded, not really to be worn—note that the bustle has not yet come back into fashion despite Yamamoto’s and Kawakubo’s best efforts! This is not to deny that each season does bring something new and that we as consumers tend to welcome seasonal shifts in fashion. Sure, we say: Lengthen and accentuate the leg with low-waisted skinny jeans! Or, Let's put everyone in maternity clothes for a summer! And then, the next year: Widen the pant to accentuate the waist! Despite the normative directions of fashion’s operations—retain the pro- portion between waist, breast, and hip!—mutability does have its place.
But these are not examples of the unimaginable. They are simply small deviations from the norm. Within most contemporary fashion, difference remains relative to what came before. While change is an option, the com- mitment to difference tends to be constrained to possibility: difference rarely engages with true potential, with the unimaginable not-yet. This al- lows fashion to plan itself long in advance (designers tend to work up to two seasons ahead), holding creativity within a relatively predictable frame.
We might see a change in color, or a change in cut, but we will rarely be introduced to a completely different paradigm. The tweaking of the habit thus still remains within the realm of the habitual—it is more of a lateral stretch than a recomposition.
Kawakubo does not operate this way. Against the parsing of fashion into seasons, she works procedurally, her attention not focused on the already-existent. This is the force of her procedural fashionings, that she understands that the edgings into existence of habit’s mutability are com- posed of the more-than of form, the more-than of the existent shapings of garment-imagination. In this regard, her work proceeds at the pace of a world-constituting procedure.
World-constituting never means world-constituted. To craft a procedure that is world-constituting, the fine-tuning must occur in the event—it must be immanent to the event’s coming-into-itself. Fashion that follows habit fully formed is not doing this. It is created according to an externally im- posed normative framework. Kawakubo’s practice departs from this ap- proach: she is very much engaged in the constitutive tendencies that open habit to its more-than.
In this regard, her fashionings actively produce what Deleuze calls “a be- lief in the world” (1989: 172). Like the world-constituting procedure, a be- lief in the world refuses to follow the world as given. A belief in the world is about crafting the conditions to encounter the world differently each time. Procedural architecture takes this as its mantra. To become procedural, a practice has to directly connect to habit’s mutation and, from there, create not new habits, but new incipient directionalities. These incipient direc- tionalities will have the tendency, over time, to morph into habit. A proce- dural architecture must therefore be capable of activating minor gestures that continuously direct incipiency toward new modes of existence. Much tweaking is necessary to find the right balance between the static and the chaotic.
When incipiency tunes toward new modes of existence, it is because the emergent event has been mobilized in the differential of the in-act and the acting. Arakawa and Gins define this differential as “a tentative construct- ing toward a holding in place.” Scales and speeds coexist in this tentative fragility, reminding us that the procedural must work at differing degrees of intensity. “Everything is tentative, but some things or events have a ten- tativeness with a faster-running clock than others. So that there can at least be a keeping pace with bioscleave’s tentativeness, it becomes necessary to divine how best to join events into an event-fabric, which surely involves
learning to vary this speed at which one fabricates tentative constructings toward holding in place” (Arakawa and Gins 2002: 48).
To become procedural, scales and speeds must be taken up from the perspective of the event. This approach ensures that we do not fall prey to building world-constituting procedures that are simply sized and timed for human benefit. Procedures must be crafted that are capable not only of creating the conditions for an event that is perceptible to the human, that engages the human (within the scales and speeds of our own emer- gent bodyings), but that are also capable of fielding difference and creating openings in the continuously speciating arena of the more-than human.
In Arakawa and Gins’s writings, as in Kawakubo’s, there is sometimes the sense that the human body rears up as the starting point rather than one of many potential fields of activation within the relational milieu. Yet a closer look at the workings of their work (including their writing, in the case of Arakawa and Gins) makes it amply apparent that it is the event of the work’s workings that matters. In their faire oeuvre, in terms of what they can do, both Arakawa and Gins’s architectings and Kawakubo’s fashionings challenge the view that the human subject is at the stable center of experi- ence and that the body can be abstracted out from the complexity of the milieu. Arakawa and Gins write: “We do not mean to suggest that architec- ture exists only for the one who beholds or inhabits it, but rather that the body-in-action and the architectural surround should not be defined apart from each other, or apart from bioscleave. Architectural works can direct the body’s tentative constructing toward a holding in place, its forming in place. But it is also the case that how the body moves determines what turns out to hold together as architecture for it” (2002: 50). The tentative- ness is of the body as mobile concept. A body is not a definitive form, but a tentative construction toward a holding in place. The tentativeness of all bodyings must be attended to in the creation of procedural architectures, for this is what keeps the event open to speciating potential.
The minor gesture makes ingression into the procedure at just this inter- section: the minor gesture lands onto tentativeness. In landing onto tenta- tiveness, the minor gesture opens up the field of relation, making felt how the field is, by its very nature, co-compositional. In this tentative field of relation made felt by the minor gesture, “how the body moves determines what turns out to hold together as architecture for it.” The action does not belong to a preconstituted body. Body is “tentative constructing toward holding in place.”
Similarly, Kawakubo does not design for a preexisting form. She de- signs in the event-fabric of a reorienting of what fashioning can be. “I put parts of patterns where they don’t usually go. I break the idea of ‘clothes.’ I think about using for everything what one would normally use for one thing. Give myself limitations.”6 In Kawakubo’s practice, even the fabric, the materiality of the proposition that moves her work, becomes procedural, oriented toward a tentative encounter with emergent modes of existence that activate a bodying not yet defined. Procedurality moves materiality to its limit.
That Kawakubo’s experiments are not constrained to a focus on the gar- ment is key: otherwise she would not be capable of pushing the material beyond its attachment to the forms vividly associated with current habits within the fashion industry. “The main pillar of my activity is making clothes, but this can never be the perfect and only vehicle of expression. I am always thinking of the total idea, and the context of everything. Fash- ion alone is so far from being the whole story.”7 The “total idea” Kawakubo composes with includes the totality of what a material can do, the material here never abstracted from the question of bodying: when Kawakubo asks what the textile is capable of, she is necessarily also asking how a bodying exceeds its putative limits. Creativity is at work, but a creativity not re- stricted to the creation of either a subject or an object. When Kawakubo says “One cannot fight the battle without freedom. I think the best way to fight that battle, which equals the unyielding spirit, is in the realm of crea- tion. That’s exactly why freedom and the spirit of defiance is the source (fountainhead) of my energy,” what is at stake is not a capitalist creation of the newest new, a new body, a new object, but the activation of the force of relation that has as its goal the fashioning of a new mode of existence.8 Freedom here, as in Bergson, is allied to the in-act, activated in the field of experimentation. Linked to the concept of creativity, which in Whitehead is defined as the “actualization of potentiality,” Kawakubo’s work creates sites of freedom for fashion. As procedural fashionings, her work invites us to reinvent what constitutes value at that lively interstice between bodyings and worldings.9
Speaking of modes of existence, Souriau writes: “It’s a matter of inven- tion (like you ‘invent’ a treasure)” (2009: 142). There is no predetermined existence (just like the treasure only takes form “as treasure” when it is con- sidered one). Since existence is only ever invented from within the field of relation and no two events activate the same field in the same way, modes
of existence as Souriau defines them are by necessity interstitial. This inter- stitiality is what gives modes of existence their differential force and pro- tects them from becoming restricted by habitual forms of life. At the same time, to “become a treasure,” a mode of existence needs a push toward a de- gree of consistency. The minor gesture is what gives the mode of existence the consistency it needs to become itself. How the minor gesture courses through and punctuates a mode of existence will define how the mode’s in- terstitial nature lands as event-time. A procedural fashioning is harnessed in the now of a potentializing architecture.