Kawakubo resists being cornered into ethnicity. Where she comes from is an accident of birth, her husband, Adrian Joffe, reminds a journalist.10 This is not to say that the country of her birth has no effect on her practice. What it means is that with the creation of new modes of existence come new tentative ways of siting oneself. Historical memory crosses over, of course, but Kawakubo is firm: her practice is never a replaying of history as a simple score. What matters for her is not the cradle of inheritance, but the force of form that pushes experience to its limit.
This is not to underestimate the importance of what came before. As Whitehead would say, nonsensuous perception, the way pastness folds into presentness to tweak the in-act, makes a difference in the coming-to-be of what experience can do. The key is to understand that nonsensuous per- ception is not analogous to the carrying-over of a history fully formed. Nonsensuous perception is an inheritance of the past in the present, an inheritance always in the midst of reinvention, of recomposition. The past is in this way always a futurity in the making. In Kawakubo’s case, one of the areas of inheritance, I believe, is a specific cultural encounter with two singular forms of spatial patterning: the kimono and the tatami. These two patternings have orientations in common: both tend toward a complexity of potential form-takings; both are minimal in their cut, preferring the sim- plicity of a straight edge that refuses to mold to a predefined shape; and, as a result, both are open to various interpretations of what a fashioning (of the environment, of the body) can do.
In the kimono, a garment used across genders that is cut in a way that does not conform to a given idea of preexisting body-contours (cut beyond the length of the body, for instance, refusing to use body-dimension as a point of departure, preferring instead to foreground texture, color, the
artistry of the textile itself), there is the inheritance of a different way of thinking the pattern: there is a sense of the infinite in the cut of the kimono, of the infinite line. For the kimono is not made to fit, its lines are not con- touring, its cut is not first and foremost gendering (though its textures can be). How it is worn is what makes the difference, and there of course con- touring and gendering both occur. But that this happens in a second stage means that the garment retains an openness to invention: as emergent pat- terning, the kimono evokes not shape as aligned to preexisting form, but a processual unfolding that changes in each singular instance of dressing.
This history of an openness to the line—think the kimono as an as- semblage of straight lines—an openness that at all stages of the process inquires not into the fit of the garment according to preestablished body- constraints but into its material potential, is perhaps what gives Kawakubo the confidence to ask her pattern-makers to work collaboratively with materials before even thinking of the form they can create. She mentions, for instance, giving her pattern-makers a crumpled piece of paper with an invitation to create something beyond a form, something that is not yet clothing, not yet architecture, but a mode of existence that brings both into tentative appearance (Rissanen 2007: 3).
The tatami, as I mentioned above, is another example of an inheritance that may have an effect on the kinds of constraints Kawakubo develops in her procedural approach. The tatami as it is used architecturally can be seen as an activator of space’s malleability: the tatami room, in a traditional Japanese context, keeps the environment bare enough that the space can become the conduit for more than one kind of activity. Furniture is kept to an absolute minimum, the space itself open to continuous reorganization. In this regard, the tatami room can be seen as an architecting of mobility for a tentative holding in place, for an experience of spacing or bodying wherein “the design process never starts and finishes.”11
Both these inheritances encourage us not to delimit Kawakubo’s crea- tions to a superficial definition of “Japaneseness,” but to emphasize that inheritance as a nonsensuous operation has procedural potential. These inheritances, if they make a difference, do so in the way they energize a procedure yet to be invented, opening experience in its unfolding to the discovery of the oeuvre à faire, not the work as it has been historically pre- oriented, but the work’s working in the now of its evolution.
Take the Comme des Garçons collection “Dress Becomes Body.” The public’s response when this collection came out was to see the clothing only with respect to what it did to the preexisting body and how it aligned