with or diverged from the history of fashion design. Within this contingent of responses came the unsettled gaze that wondered whether this was a collection that idealized deformity or disability, whether it was an affront to the body itself.
Such responses to the collection depend on preexisting categories not only as regards the fashion, but also as regards the body. What if we look further, taking Kawakubo’s procedural fashioning at its word? What if in- stead of beginning from what we know, from the habits of fashion, we be- gan in an encounter with tentativeness? “Persons need to be rescued from self-certainty, but they also need to put their tentativeness in precise order in relation to works of architecture” (Arakawa and Gins 2002: 50).
In the “Dress Becomes Body” collection, a shaping occurs. Why must we assume that this shaping hides a body? Why not instead take this shap- ing for what it is, as the event in itself, an event that includes a body-world co-composition? What if instead of assuming that the person is not the shape, we were open to a different concept of personing that included its architecting? Arakawa and Gins speak of “organism that persons.” Could this be what is at stake in “Dress Becomes Body”?
Look again, this time refusing to abstract body from shape. See the per- soning as the architecting and refrain from selecting out from the emergent
shaping the contours of the body’s skin-envelope. See the shape for what it is: a new contouring. Acknowledge this tendency to see textile as that which covers and not as a materiality in its own right. Then see textile in the mov- ing, as an active shaping of what a body can do. See textile as an ecology of practices that is not separate from the body it clothes. And now wonder at the ways you have become capable of abstracting the one from the other (and then wonder about how you abstract the sitting body from the desk, the walking body from the street, the sleeping body from the bed).
Look again. This time see the shaping not as a still body covered with material, but as mobile architecture. Can you see the bodying beyond an image of what you consider a deformation of a preexisting shape? Can you see that the humpback, the strange shoulder-hip tumor, may not prefig- ure the grotesque body of your horrified imagination, but might instead remind you of what you see every day as you walk around the wintry city of Montreal?
Look again. Now see the tentative architectures. See the movement that was made invisible by the tendency to abstract textile from body. See the backpack, see the cross-body purse. See the puffy coat with the baby un- derneath, collar slightly open for its head. See what you see every day from November to March in your cold climate and wonder again why when you saw it in the subway, on the street, in the café, you didn’t see it as a disfig- urement. Wonder at how quickly just yesterday you were able to see this body-dressed-for-winter as a body separate from its fashioning, at how quickly you unburdened the skin-envelope from its Michelin Man coat. And note in surprise what Kawakubo’s work has given you: a new mode of perception. Now look again and see not the clothing that masks a moving body, but a shape in the making that includes movement, that includes tex- tile, that includes body, the three together an ecology that is an emergent bodying, a procedural fashioning. Note with some awe that the “Dress Be- comes Body” collection is not the high and inaccessible fashion you may have assumed it was, but a lively encounter with the everyday.
The envelope has been ruptured. We are accustomed to the act of exci- sion, of subtraction. Parsing is what we neurotypicals are best at. We see the winter-clad body with its thick coat, the knapsack, the heavy bag, and we simply excise them from existence. We assume that the body is the shape underneath instead of the force taking form of an ecology, instead of a spe- ciation. What else does that mean we don’t see?
The “Dress Becomes Body” collection is a world-constituting proce- dure for autistic perception: Kawakubo has created a shaping that refuses