to celebrate the parsings that make reflective consciousness the order of the day, and she has made it available to all of us. With “Dress Becomes Body” she has introduced us to a modality of perception not so far from our everyday experience that we can’t account for it once it’s made avail- able for perception, and yet far enough that we perhaps realize how we’ve become distanced from the operative interstitiality of modes of existence in-forming.
Souriau has a word for the cleaving that makes operational a mode of existence: instauration. This untranslatable word, which means “to consti- tute, to create, to found, to inaugurate,” is defined in Souriau as the capacity of the mode of existence to settle itself into the world as procedural. “A phi- losophy of instauration will bring together at once the modes of the in-act and those of being, studying by which path they can be combined” (2009: 164). Instauration directs the mode of existence toward what Whitehead calls the becoming of continuity. Instauration is the inflection that makes felt the difference in the event. Allied to the punctuating force of the minor gesture, instauration marks the decisional cut in experience. It is here, in the activation of difference, that new modes of existence are redirected toward new forms of life-living.
The “Dress Becomes Body” collection invents a mode of existence that is in alliance with what Arakawa and Gins call “a site of sited awareness” (2002: 51). It makes felt the double articulation of the in-act and the acting at the very level of perception itself. To articulate the concept of sited aware-
ness, Arakawa and Gins develop the concept of the landing site. The landing site seeks to articulate how a perception, a movement, a tendency, extracts itself from the wider field of experience to land just this way. For Arakawa and Gins, this landing can be said to be an “apportioning out”: “That which is being apportioned out is in the process of landing. To be apportioned out involves being cognizant of sites. To be cognizant of a site amounts to hav- ing greeted it in some manner or to having in some way landed on it” (2002: 5). It is important to understand that the landing is not first and foremost spatial, nor is it oriented by a preexisting subject or object. The siting is a bringing into relation. This bringing into relation has the capacity to dimen- sionalize, and when this happens, architectural tendencies in the environ- ment are brought to the fore. But the landing site can also have other func- tions, working more at the level of perception, of attention, or even making felt edgings of experience that are still in germ. Arakawa and Gins write of “dancing attendance on the perceptual landing site,” of “landing sites dis- solv[ing] into each other, or abut[ting], or overlap[ing], or nest[ing] within one another,” of “distributing sentience” (2002: 7–9). The landing site is not a location, not a point, but the tending, the abutting, the segmenting that selects out what is most persuasive at this eventful conjuncture.
“Dress Becomes Body” sites awareness by creating the potential for a perceptual landing to occur differently. How perception lands has an effect on how a tentative architecting toward a holding in place bodies. In the event of “Dress Becomes Body,” the emergent shaping procedure invites perception to reorient: perception lands differently. The landing site ac- tivated by the collection is operational; it makes felt perception’s proces- sual nature. Siting awareness in the field of relation opens perception to its neurodiverse potential. This challenges our tendency to assume that what we perceive is simply preconstituted form, opening perception to what for neurotypicals has tended to become latent. With “Dress Becomes Body,” we directly perceive the activity of shaping. Because perception lands differently, the work gives the neurotypical the rare opportunity to partic- ipate in the ecology that is autistic perception, an ecology where morpho- genesis trumps form and body becomes bodying.
In the siting of awareness activated by this and other Comme des Garçons collections, as with Arakawa and Gins’s built procedural architec- tures such as Bioscleave House in Long Island and the Reversible Destiny Lofts in Tokyo, what is at stake is the process of shaping that lands aware- ness differently. To land awareness is a way of working the work, of faire oeuvre: it brings into focus not the work as such but the very procedural-