What is most interesting about a procedural approach, it should be clear by now, is not the final form a process might take. What is at stake is the shaping itself—how a form might be capable of remaining procedural, and, even more so, how its procedurality is capable of keeping minor ges- tures alive. In the case above, both architectures remain procedural, but they do so to different degrees. What matters is how these degrees are taken up in experience. What matters is what new processes they enable: what new modes of existence they solicit, what minor tendencies they call forth. What matters is how the work is attended to in the modality of sited awareness, how its instauration is felt and how the work’s faire oeuvre per- sists, persuasively. What matters is how the event continues to be proce- durally capable of carrying the untimeliness of event-time—“Oh! That’s what it was!”—while operatively attending to the singularity of the event in this iteration of its coming-to-be. For work that works does take a stand. It stands in the time in which it lands, and it makes demands on that time. It marks it. A procedural architecting, a procedural fashioning, always in- volves an encounter with a work that persists even as it stands, that engages with the openings of potential even as it takes its place, here and now.
This is the strangeness of the procedural as world-constituting, that it must at once be taken up in the absoluteness of its self-determination in
the here and now and that it must at the same time remain open to the dif- ferential of times not yet invented. How to create conditions whereby the here and now and the necessity of time’s unfolding coexist? This might pro- duce some anxiety. “What can I do so as not to be paced out of existence?” ask Arakawa and Gins (2011). The only way not to be paced out of existence is to remain steadfastly in the act. For to be paced out of existence suggests being on existence’s edge and watching it go by. This only happens when there is an assumption that what matters is outside of the event, this event of life-living. If we consider our being to always be in the midst, if we con- sider that the body is never one, never outside, never enveloped, but always a singular speciation of an emergent ecology, there is no danger that we will be paced out of existence. But this does not mean that the immortality Arakawa and Gins make the beacon of their work will be attained.13 What will remain immortal is not the human body, but the procedural force that bodies, that architects, that fashions, the procedural force that sites aware- ness in the field of relation. What will persist, in shifting ecologies that include us but are not limited to us, is the more-than, the body as a society of molecules, a tentative construction toward a holding in place.
Modes of existence as they are crafted out of ecologies of practices are never primarily human. They are ecological, active at the interstices of what life is becoming, life understood not only in terms of the vital, but as an ac- tive vector that passes through the organic and the inorganic. Life as life- living, as force of form invented in the cut that cleaves experience, opening it to new modes of existence.