Kawakubo’s work embodies such choreographic tendencies, bringing to awareness the dance of attention active in the materiality of her textile crea- tions. This is very apparent in her early work, often termed “deconstruc- tive.” I draw attention to the work of the so-called deconstructive period for two reasons: to challenge the usage of the term “deconstruction” in fashion, and to suggest that deconstruction, taken as an engaged rethinking of what textile can do, is still very much at work in the current collections produced by Comme des Garçons.14
When deconstruction is theorized in relation to Kawakubo’s work (as well as other Japanese designers, such as Yohji Yamamoto), it tends to de- note the making apparent of the seams of a garment in a way that creates a conversation about the garment’s form. It foregrounds the unfinished seams, for instance, and tends to make a statement about counterculture (emphasizing, for instance, the way a given designer refuses to conform to haute couture’s norms). Derrida’s definition of the term takes it much further. For Derrida, deconstruction is never a method, but rather a way to return again to the act of reading or making in order to see how it stages its alliances to form, to history, to epistemology.15 This approach encour-
ages an account of how the work moves, and what it can do in its incipient activity. In the case of fashion, this encourages a turn not to the form itself but to the materiality of construction itself, to the ways in which the decon- structive gesture activates the force of form.
In the context of the choreographic in its relation to dance, it is always compelling, I find, to explore the share of movement that “remains,” that is “left over” in the passage from force to form. This is particularly percep- tible in the work of choreographer William Forsythe. In rehearsal, Forsythe repeatedly encourages his dancers to “leave behind” the form of the move- ment in order to explore what exceeds its form, its representational stature. I have written about this in terms of the “what else,” asking what else move- ment can do in its fielding of relation. It seems to me that the what else is of central importance in Kawakubo’s so-called deconstructive work, a gesture that once again brings architecture and fashion together, not in terms of scale or form, but in terms of what is left behind. How, for instance, has what takes shape altered, refigured, reoriented past ecologies of fashion in the making? How has its operation incited a reengagement with inheritance? The garments portrayed in the images from the spring–summer 2011 col- lection (figs. 4.10–4.11) are particularly interesting in this regard. What is at stake here is not simply the making apparent of the seams of the garment’s production but a foregrounding of the immanent potentiality in the seams, at the edges, in the linings of the garment. The infinite line returns here, but where it goes is not toward the kimono. The kimono is perhaps what the form could have been. The garment pictured is what was left behind.
What was left behind is the “what else” of Kawakubo’s procedural fash- ionings. This leftover share of movement-moving, the share that has not quite taken form, opens up future processes. Like the what else in Forsythe that activates the more-than of form, the what else of fashioning is what opens material to the potential of its infinite line.
It is important to emphasize that these garments (like many others), placed on display for the runways of that 2011 season, are not for direct consumption. They take the season’s garments (the works that will be sold in boutiques around the world) and emphasize their procedurality, making felt not only the tentativeness of their propositions, but the more-than, the what else, of their constructedness.
Kawakubo states repeatedly that fashion is neither the starting nor the endpoint of her research. Fashion for her is not limited to the idea of a holding-in-place of a body as pre-formed. Nor is it about deconstructing the past in the linear sense often attributed to both her work and that of