other Japanese designers, such as Yohji Yamamoto, nor simply, as the de- constructive vocabulary within fashion would have it, of revealing tradition and pulling it apart at the seams. It is, rather, about constructing toward a tentative holding in place, thereby cleaving the body-concept toward an architecting that sculpts mobility more than form. That this work reveals its seams is of course necessary at times, and among my favorite pieces of Comme des Garçons are these early works, not simply because they shed and fade and show their fragility, but because they open the act of dressing to the fragile articulations of fashion’s very composition, allowing the gar- ment to function as a lively interstice. That the garments feel alive is key to their artfulness.
Kawakubo does not work from a desk. She does not use fabric swatches. She does not sketch. She seeks no ultimate experience, no precise moment of revelation. As she says, “There is no eureka moment, there is no end to the search for something new.” Instead, she works, intuitively, problemati- cally, to create conditions for the activating of connections heretofore un- available to her. She constructs to make felt a relation that has not yet come to the fore. But she does not stop there. “Often in each collection, there are three or so seeds of things that come together accidentally to form what
appears to everyone else as a final product, but for me it is never ending.” Kawakubo continues, she persists in a serial manner, working in the inter- stices of what is on the way, in the art of time. “There is never a moment when I think, ‘This is working, this is clear.’ If for one second I think some- thing is finished, the next thing would be impossible to do.”16
In a procedural fashioning there can be no end to the process. This is a serial adventure with pinnacles of form that emerge along the way. The middle, the milieu of the in-act, is what is at stake. In this milieu, architect- ings of mobility produce tentative bodyings. Fabric shapes. But metamor- phosis is what is most sought-after. Kawakubo designs in interstitial serial- ity, always toward that which “can and cannot be found.” “Boundaries for an architectural body can only be suggested, never determined” (Arakawa and Gins 2002: 68).
In the middling, everything is at stake. Remember: this is not pure pro- cess. It is replete with the becoming of continuity, with the cleavings, the enabling constraints that make of process a practice. A collection must emerge, for it is from here, from the materiality of a form-taking, that the next procedure, the next dress, coat, pair of pants will invent itself.
But are these really still dresses, pants, coats? Ideally we would need a pro- cessual concept for these incipient forms. A dressing? A coating? A trouser- ing? The same would need to be said of the procedural architectures—not a house but a housing, a lofting, a rooming, a thresholding. For procedural processes to make a difference, they must be created such that they can per- form, reshape, constrain in ways unforeseeable. This is a difficult call, and often it fails. When this happens, the potentializing “dressing” returns to the habitual “dress,” the “thresholding” becomes reduced to “entryway.” In such cases the modes of existence the procedural fashioning sought to create lost the sense of their potential trajectory, becoming less a pathway than a finite project, as Souriau might say, losing the force of their incipient directionality. The complicity here between a procedural fashioning and a procedural architecting is as speculative as it is pragmatic. In either case it cannot be about the product. It has to be about how the procedure does its work, and keeps working. This is hit and miss. It requires a long and rigorous process of experimentation, of study, and a willingness to begin anew without pre- tending to know the starting point. Recall Kawakubo’s constraint: begin
with the belief that we don’t know what clothing can be.
In a procedural approach nothing can be taken for granted. It is always a question of the ecology at hand, of the architecting toward mobility of an emergent bodying. “Landing site configurations articulate at least this