many positions; nearnearground, nearmiddleground, nearfarground, middlenearground, middlemiddleground, middlefarground, farnear- ground, farmiddleground, farfarground; nearmiddlefarground, nearfar- middleground, middlenearmiddleground, middlenearfarground, farnear- middleground” (Arakawa and Gins 2002: 71). But take care, Arakawa and Gins remind us, not to think of these shifting grounds as positions, for they are also “areas of an architectural body, which takes its ubiquitous cue and command from the form and features of an architectural surround, sub- tending all positions within the surround’s confines” (2002: 71).
The environmental surround in a procedural fashioning is infinitely pro- ductive, for the starting point is topological: the body is that which folds.17
Without articulating it as such, I believe Kawakubo’s procedural fashion- ing takes this notion of the body as its starting point. The fold is where it always begins—the fold of the tissue paper she gives her pattern-cutter as an inspiration, the fold of the texture that constrains the scissors when she cuts, the fold that resists, that reshapes, that escapes finite form. Hers is a lifetime of research into the fold, the fold produced by the body’s bending, its kneeling, its touching, the fold of the texturing of a given piece of fabric, of the pleating so often part of her designs, the fold of the inside-out that brings the back to the fore in a garment, turning the seam on itself, the fold that resists becoming a seam, the imperceptible fold, even, of the infinite line.18 For it is a fold, imperceptible as it may be, that I see as the inspiration of her autumn–winter 2012 two-dimensional collection, a collection that strangely accentuates the body’s n-dimensionality.
A procedural architecture, in its siting of awareness at the scale of the middlenearmiddlefarground, takes the fold at its point of inflection, mak- ing apparent how the fold is the force of form the Euclidean architecture of our most normative surrounds must always build against: the fold of the hill within the landscape, of the air as it rushes against cement, creating a vortex that bends and twists, the fold of the body that moves with the building’s capacity to make space for it. To commit to a procedural ap- proach is to commit to this fold, imperceptible as it might be, and of course to commit to how it cleaves, and then to persuasively include it, to architect at its limit, inventing new ways of colluding with it, all the while attending to the dance of attention active within the force of the event’s own proce- dural unfolding. For what the fold does first and foremost is remind us that the body is never one, is never outside the ecology of its environmental architecting, its nearfarmiddleground never a question of bare ontology. The body is that which folds into the architectural surround, that which folds into the architecting of mobility that sites awareness, that which folds into its own activity, that which remains infinitely serial, that which can- not but procedurally unfold. What a procedural fashioning can do is bring this tendency to its limit. Kawakubo’s procedural fashionings begin here, at this point of inflection, architecting toward the creation of fragile modes of existence. Here, in the edging into itself of world-constituting procedures, Kawakubo designs not for the body but for a belief in the world.