Like many classical autistics, Ido Kedar came to language late. Coordinat- ing his fingers to be able to type was a long process, and because his body often went against his wishes, moving in directions contrary to those he thought of as aligned to his conscious intentions, it was incredibly difficult for him to demonstrate to his aides that he was indeed capable of under- standing their directives. This condition, which affects all classical autistics to differing degrees, is defined most aptly in the current literature as “au- tistic movement disturbance.” Following older neuroscientific literature, Kedar calls it “motor apraxia.”1 Through his writing in Ido in Autismland: Climbing Out of Autism’s Silent Prison, Kedar hopes to educate neurotypical readers and parents of autistics about movement disturbances in autism.2 His outspoken desire is that parents and specialists no longer rely on the outward appearance of autistic movement to determine what autistics can do. Just because autistics have challenges with movement and communi- cation, Kedar argues, does not mean that they cannot understand what is going on around them. Referring to the period before Kedar could ex- press himself in writing, Kedar’s mother explains: “Ido was bored out of his mind, trapped in a paralyzing silence and frustrated beyond belief. He tried hard to show that he was smart but his hands and his body did not cooperate with his mind, so everyone assumed that he just didn’t under- stand the concepts. I cannot imagine a greater exercise in frustration.” “The experts,” Kedar says, “have no clue” (2012: 24).
Opening with Kedar’s experience of his own type of neurodiversity, what I would like to do here is to take autistic motor disturbance as the starting point for a discussion of a body-world split I feel is endemic to the neurotypical account of experience. While it would be impossible to gen- eralize across any group of people, and any autistic will reiterate that there are as many autistic experiences as there are autistics, I will take autistic
perception as the starting point to this exploration. Autistic perception, as I underscored in several of the preceding chapters, is not meant to describe a group of autistics. It is, rather, a tendency in perception shared by all that privileges complexity of experience over category. Autistic Anne Corwin describes it as a slowness of chunking: the autistic’s entry into an environ- ment begins not with a perception of objects (chairs, tables) or of subjects (people) but with an edging into form, a tending of light and shadow and color. While this does eventually lead to the taking-shape of the environ- ment, to its parsing, autistics benefit from the direct perception of the ac- tive ecologies of experience in-forming. Corwin, as well as autistics Tito Mukhopadhyay, DJ Savarese, Amelia Baggs, Ido Kedar, and many others, describe a field perception that foregrounds the heterogeneity of a welling experience before it succumbs to the categorization of its parts. While, as with neurotypicals, the environment does eventually chunk, there is an im- portant time-lapse between the direct perception of the emergent ecology and the actual taking-form of the objects and subjects in its midst. Neuro- typicals will not tend to be aware of this direct perception of experience except in extreme circumstances—shock, drug use, exhaustion—or per- haps in mindfulness exercises such as meditation.3
My purpose in starting with Kedar’s experience is not to suggest that the extreme forms of body disturbance—the partial loss of the ability to coor- dinate and perform skilled, purposeful movements and gestures with ac- curacy—associated with autism are easy to live with, nor do I want to sug- gest that autistic perception is ideal in our neurotypically oriented worlds. There is no question that the world we live in is aligned to chunking, and that the quicker we get to perceiving objects and subjects, the easier the everyday is to manage. What I do want to argue is that were we to con- sider the connection between body disturbance and autistic perception, we might develop a stronger sense of how the neurotypical alignments of ex- perience are limiting as regards the complexity of the body-world ecology. Neurotypical  experience  is  built  on  a  few  key  beliefs.  First,  able- bodiedness is taken for granted as the ideal starting point for existence. Sec- ond, independence is put forward based on the idea that self-sufficiency is the goal. A self-sufficient body is regarded as a body that can con- sciously make decisions based on a strong sense of where the body ends and the world begins. Freedom is defined according to this notion of self- sufficiency. As I suggested in the introduction, these beliefs frame the preva-
lent and seemingly unshakable triad intentionality-volition-agency.
Starting with neurodiversity shakes the very foundation these beliefs are built on. Instead of beginning with the self-sustaining individual and a strong belief in selfhood/independence, I therefore begin here. I start with relation, proposing that autistic perception gives us a direct account of relation in-forming, an account that challenges the notion that the world comes parsed. Taking neurodiversity as the point of departure, I suggest that a body is a field-effect in a complex relational milieu that includes the sense of its limits—a body-envelope—but in no way stops there. What if instead of seeing the nonconscious unaligned body-world continuum Kedar describes as something to be overcome, we began the conversation from the perspective of what else a body can do, creating a robust account of the role of nonvolitional or preintentional (nonconscious) expression in the event of life-living? Kedar laments: “It’s that my body finds its own route when my mind can’t find it” (2012: 47). This neurodiverse misalign- ment with what is defined as conscious intentionality is no doubt frustrat- ing. I don’t want to underestimate that. But what if we took a different per- spective on it? What if the path to neurotypical functioning were not the ideal one, the belief that we are the absolute directors of our movements? What if a different account led Kedar to find his motor disturbance helpful in the complex aligning of experience in the making? Are we certain that our “able-bodied” approaches are as ideal as we say they are?
Reading of Kedar’s trauma as regards his experience of not being able to demonstrate his understanding of the world around him, it might be tempting to say, as Kedar himself does, that the rift between body and world, which translates to a body/mind dichotomy in his work, is really what is at stake. After all, it is a relief, as we read his book, to see him more and more capable of aligning his experience to that of neurotypicals— holding back his stims, writing, coordinating his body to his intentions— finally being taken seriously and considered intelligent by those around him.4 But is the body-world, body-mind distinction he articulates as need- ing to be overcome not a measure of neurotypical, able-bodied reason- ing? What if instead we approached this question of how body and world co-compose from the perspective that “finding” the body in time and space is a learned experience? What if we followed Bergson’s account, outlined in the introduction, concerning the functioning of “continuous movement,” thereby questioning our presuppositions about what is voluntary? What if we suggested that the relational experience of bodying described by so many autistics—where body is a field of sensation more than a locus—is
closer to the complex reality of experience’s formation than the neurotypi- cal account we are fed from our earliest acquisition of motor skills?
It is not my wish, once again, to underestimate the frustration Kedar feels when he writes: “I am sure a lot of autistic people are smart like me, but they have no means to show it. It’s not just speech. It’s fine motor. It’s body awareness. It’s insurmountable obstacles that prevent the reply, so the autistic kid is treated like an unintelligent kid” (2012: 48). The neuro- typically oriented world we live in privileges consciousness as aligned to instrumentality over nonconscious, nonvolitional tendings. It is this very neurotypical perspective that teaches us that a body begins and ends in a skin envelope we can readily perceive. Again and again in young childhood we are given instructions that assist us in differentiating our skin from that of the world. Think, for instance, of the young child’s difficulty in assign- ing hurt when they fall, and their tendency to point to the ground instead of their knee. These teachings, which also tend to foreground the norma- tively rational over the emergently creative or intuitive, the individual over the relational, tune our existence toward a very simple notion of what a body can do. This, over time, convinces the child that singling out objects and subjects by categorizing experience is a necessary part of growing up. That this approach backgrounds the animism of their childhood beliefs is simply taken as a necessary rite of passage toward the agency that comes with adulthood. This invariably results in the backgrounding in experience of the lively continuity and co-composition between body and world.
Growing up means contending with a neurotypically oriented world, which in turn means dealing with the importance given to intentionality. “I don’t know why initiating is so hard,” writes Kedar, voicing what I am cer- tain is one of the most discouraging aspects of autism. Autistic motor dis- turbance is certainly the main reason many autistics are not perceived to be capable of thinking for themselves. And yet it is likely this very difficulty that makes autistic perception prevalent and that allows autistics to dwell longer in the still-composing precategorized field of relation.5 It is also this open- ness to experience in-forming at the edges where body and environment are not yet two that explains the fact that most if not all autistics are synesthetic. As Kedar describes: “If I hear some music I get hot or cold. It’s like a full sen- sory experience of sound, sight and temperature. . . . It’s interesting to expe- rience things on more than one sensory level. . . . To see music takes music to another level, however it is also possible for me to get overwhelmed be- cause my senses bombard me with so much information” (2012: 73).
I want to begin here, in the midst of a paradoxical experience where on the one hand there is difficulty as regards initiation and follow-through, where there are real challenges with communication and body-movement alignment, and on the other hand there is an acute richness of relational intensity that facilitates a perhaps more complex encounter with the world in-forming. From this perspective, where bodies are often not yet—“If I have my eyes closed I don’t know where my hands are” (Kedar 2012: 81)— it would be easy to simply suggest, as Kedar often does, that there is some- thing profoundly lacking that must be rectified. Kedar certainly thinks so: “My exercising is helping me to feel [my body] more. My body is begin- ning to connect more to my brain. I’m determined to overcome this chal- lenge” (2012: 81). But as the above paradox makes apparent, this is not an all-or-nothing proposition. Certainly, I fully support and understand the importance for Kedar and other autistics to design techniques that make neurotypically inclined existence easier to navigate. But this does not pre- clude valuing aspects of autistic experience that tend to be undervalued (even by autistics). And so this is where I start, in the midst of the uneasy body-world relation Kedar describes.