If the body is a dynamic constellation in co-composition with the environ- ment, if it is an ecology of practices, and if thought is an active contribu- tor to the feltness of experience, it seems to me that the starting point in challenging the body-world split is putting thought in the world. Thought as Kedar experiences it is not “in” his body. It is across experience, in the syn- esthetic sensations that refute the absolute locatedness of body and world. That he has such difficulty aligning body to conscious will does not mean that the activity is not full of thought, nor does it mean that he is not in awareness. It likely means quite the opposite—that the thought is so full, so complexly aligned across a relational field that includes body and world in their co-composition that the thought’s subtraction into one conscious task (“point at that”) is extremely difficult.
There is an important difference between conscious thought and thought that moves with experience in the making. Conscious thought is but the pinnacle of a much more complex thinking, one that aligns to field perception but does not yet single itself out for conscious discrimination. Nonconscious thought is everywhere active in experience. It moves at dif-
ferential speeds. It cuts across. It opens up. It shifts. It is not in the body or in the mind, but across the bodying where world and body co-compose in a welling ecology.
In Kedar’s case the movement of thought is not the problem. The prob- lem is in the making-conscious of this movement, in the subtraction from the field of relation to the actual occasion. The field is simply too complex to easily pull out of it one single thought-activity. What makes it so com- plex is the movement in it. A body trained to subtract, to parse, is a body that has learned to find a certain stillness in, and believes it can differenti- ate itself from, the commotion of the ecologies that compose experience.
A movement of thought is elastic. It always begins in the milieu, in the midst of experience. This is another way of saying that it begins in move- ment. For the world is nothing if not in continuous movement. In Kedar’s narration of experience, this kind of thinking is of no use-value. It simply doesn’t add up to anything. But that’s because so much is at stake in his need to convince those around him that he can think. This urgency is partly due to his long history of being treated with Applied Behavioral Analysis (aba), still a far too common therapy for autistics. The interventionist model of aba assumes that the autistic’s way of moving must be eradi- cated, thereby denying the complexity of thought-movement that takes place in the movement-dance of autistic perception. Kedar writes: “Each day the experts denied me hand-flapping but I had no other outlet for my feelings. . . . In the aba years I lost hope. . . . I longed so badly to be able to make my ideas known. I got flashcards instead. ‘Touch your nose.’ ‘Touch tree.’ ‘Touch your head.’ ‘Do this.’ ‘Sit quiet.’ ‘Touch red.’ ‘Good job.’ ‘Hands quiet.’ ‘No.’ ‘Great.’ ‘No.’ ‘Great’ ‘No.’ ‘All right!’ ‘No’” (2012: 58).6 Further along in the book he continues: “Some people prefer not to see the truth. If I’m doing what I do it means others can too. If they refuse to see it, they don’t have to change how they teach kids. . . . I guess that watching the films [of me communicating] and asking my therapist questions would be too risky. Someone might get convinced that a retarded autistic kid was really intact in thinking. That would mean that they would need to see autism in a new way. Can’t let that happen. Suppressing alternative view- points is better” (2012: 79). This history of not being believed, of having to prove his intelligence over and over again, leads Kedar to privilege cogni- tion over autistic perception, situating his native way of thinking-feeling on the lower rungs of worthwhile ways to live. But all of this doesn’t deny the complexity at work in his movements of thought:
Nature isn’t neat or orderly. The grass is waving this way or that. The branches are crooked and gray and gnarled. The path is lopsided from rivers of rain and erosion. The plants grow in random places. I see no pattern, unlike a landscaped lawn. I fit in so well. I am so at home in the messy beauty of nature. I see the system is messy, but it works and it is wow. I see my illness this way. It’s not pretty. It is messy. It has erosion and rivers of mud too. But it is part of nature in the same way. (2012: 119)