What makes this experience come into itself just this way? A neurotypical account would say that volition is at the heart of it. I want to focus my at- tention, I want to move. Volition, intentionality, and agency co-compose to create the free individual. But is this really how we move through the world?
I want to propose, as I have done throughout, that experience cannot be reduced to individual volition. It is collective—ecological—at its very core. The concept I want to foreground here for the selecting-out of expe- rience is inflection. Inflection is a concept close to the idea of the differ- ential as theorized by Leibniz and then Deleuze. In differential calculus, a point of inflection is defined as “a point on a curve at which the curvature or concavity changes sign from plus to minus or from minus to plus. The curve changes from being concave upwards (positive curvature) to con- cave downwards (negative curvature), or vice versa.”7
Within the complexity of movement-moving, there is movement not yet actualized for experience—Jose Gil calls this total movement—and there is actual movement.8 Similar to Bergson’s theory of duration, where time actualized in experience is always co-composing with the durational field from which it has emerged, a field that is virtual but real, movement actualized does not neutrally detach itself from total movement. Like dura- tion, total movement is a field of relation that is always actively co-compos- ing with the actual in its emergence: the virtual, felt in its effects, is always active in the actual—this is what makes it real. When this or that experi- ence differentiates itself from the field, when it becomes this or that, it has therefore altered the wider field of experience. The field, as I argued in the introduction, has changed in nature.
What occurs to activate the pulling of a movement in a new direction if human intentionality or agency is not the core activator? What I want
to suggest here is that every experience of movement felt is the result of a point of inflection in experience, an inflection activated not simply by the individual but by the tending of the field itself.
The inflection is the point at which a tending breaks off, the point where a vague incipiency becomes a directionality. This directionality need not be a trajectory. It is less a point in space than an intensity that morphs the line that has formed in the moving. Perceiving the inflection does not mean being aware of it as though you could be outside it. It means moving in its tending. It means attending, in the event, to how movement diverges from its flow, attending to how movement moves.
The extraction from the field of total movement initiated by the point of inflection results in a co-composition—virtual and actual movement com- pose to create the durational movement-field experienced in the moving. This calls for a complex relational attunement, in the event. Speeds and slownesses and scales of action must attune as the field changes in nature. If the shift in scale or speed is acute, the attunement in its difference is felt as the what else of the movement’s coming into itself, as I described in the last chapter. This occurs thousands of times a day, though it is rarely no- ticed consciously.
The inflection occurs in the midst even as it marks the event’s diver- gence from itself. It is the force of difference that cues a transition. This transition dephases movement-moving. There may be a change in direc- tion, or the movement may seem roughly continuous, but what is certain is that there will be a change in quality. The change in quality shifts the field of movement, altering not only how you move, but how the emergent movement moves you. The ecological effect of the inflection is felt as the sharpening, the lengthening, the deepening, the closing or opening of the field. What is felt is the uneasy twitching of movement-conditions. This attunement to the field in its divergence calls the field to attention. This makes the field lively with attention, an attention that affects the you you are becoming. The field feels poised.9
The poised field is alive with tendencies. Not each tendency will inflect. Many will simply perish, active only as potentiality. This means that their microinflections, while they may have affected the field in minor ways, are not active enough to cause a remarkable transition. There will not have been a transduction, but the tendency for a microdephasing will have been alive for that split second of their contribution to the field in-forming. This will likely only be realized after the fact when the felt effects of the inflec- tion have been consciously absorbed.
Whitehead talks about this as negative prehension. In the actual occa- sion, in the event of activity realizing itself as event, there is a taking-up of experience through prehension. Prehension is what culls this or that from the field of movement-moving. When the prehension actualizes as occa- sion, the world has appeared in its singularity and created this or that felt experience. But what of the almost-felt in its push-pull elasticity? Hasn’t this too made a difference, even if it wasn’t aligned to in the event?
The almost makes a difference. It is the more-than of experience in the making. This more-than is alive in the productive schism between the act and the in-act. It is what remains, but also what exceeds the event. Every event is made up of this surplus. This surplus is elastic. It has no form as such, it has no tense, it cannot be categorized. It is neither of the present, of the past nor of the future. It is pulled across times in the making, felt in its resonance. The almost shapes the present-passing without inflecting it, yet it contributes to the ways the inflection can create new directionalities. It is important to not place the inflection in the realm of human in- tentionality. Movement inflects due to movement’s own processes. This does not mean that the human has no role to play. Of course how the body moves has effects, and there is no end to inflections activated by tendings that include the human. It’s just that the intention is not where we usually assume it is. It is in the event, in the ecology. Perhaps one way of thinking inflection as more-than human is through gravity. Gravity acts on the body. It activates vertical movements, moving organs, limbs toward the earth. It also activates lateral movements, widening, pulling toward depth of field.
Gravity can be defined as directional activity in the event’s coming to be.
Gravity does not create the inflection. It is part of the conditions through which certain tendential inflections become more typical than others. For instance, gravitational movement tends to move toward the earth rather than away from it. But gravity does not always body the same way. What it can do is dependent on the ecology that is co-activated in the bodying. Gravity is a field, after all, not simply a directionality. The poten- tial of the field cannot be understood apart from what it does, from what it can do, in relation to the fieldings it co-activates.
Attending to the more-than is a way of saying that the field itself is at- tentive to its potential shifts, that the field has within its potential the ca- pacity to create the conditions for difference. The more-than is everywhere present in different constellations—in and across the human, the animal, the vegetal, the mineral. In this emergent speciating field of experience, I propose to explore the workings, nonintentional and yet free, as Bergson
would say, of nonvolitional movement. Urgent questions frame the anal- ysis: How can we articulate in language the agencements at the heart of the event’s dance of attention in a way that doesn’t simply take us back to the neurotypical account of experience and its alignment to subject-centered agency? Can we imagine not being the masters of our acts without falling prey to the idea that if we are not master, someone or something else must be? Is it possible to create an account of immanent movement and autistic perception that convinces us that there are other ways to be free?