If the history of the State is the endocolonization of the earth by the apparatus, that history may be coming to an end as exhuman functions proliferate-differentiate in every domain. Although Bush hasn't brought his thing back home yet in a big way, his repeated promise to mobilize the army to fight the "war" against drugs alongside already highly techo-militarized police forces shows that there are strong pressures to expand even the most unapologetic command apparatuses on the domestic front. If army, police, spy machines and their derivatives continue to automate and interlink, joining already interconnecting apparatuses such as marketing research, "information economy" financial circuits of all kinds, and the mass media, forming a horizontal net of increasingly complex autonomic response capabilities, the point will be reached when the vertical dimension proper to the State's overarching drive to unity becomes superfluous. This would not, however, mean an end to power. Power is captured force, apparatically applied. The importance of despotic command--the function proper to the State-form--would recede in favor of posthuman social control. While it would mark the end of human sovereignty, it would not be the end of power; it would be a new form of power, perhaps more effective than any yet seen. What are currently State apparatuses might retain a key role, acting collectively as something approaching a central processing unit, a machinic node coordinating capitalized autonomic processes, adjusting them to one another, mediating conflicts, maximizing profit. But this would be an immanent formation, a coordinator of heterogeneous horizontal movements on the plane of capital, rather than a structuring unity projecting its image onto the social field from a higher plane all its own.7 It would not be a State in our sense. The wave of social and economic deregulation sweeping the Western nation-states since the early 1980s coupled with the development of transnational trade zones in the 1990s (the European Community, the North American Free Trade Zone, the Yen bloc, and the Commonwealth of Independent States replacing the old Soviet Union) represent strong tendencies in this direction.