If the personified organism is a creature of the State, and the State forever arrives and returns to a transhistorical place that cannot be located, then so does gender. Gender is an imaging and discourse system, a system of symbolizations and ideations driven by a dynamic that is in itself utterly impersonal, inorganic. The "body without an image" is an oxymoron expressing this inherence of the impersonal and inorganic in the human. "Virtual kinetic geography" is another term for it, one playing on a different level of the State system of homologies, that of the territory. The Bush-thing's privileging of the neuter, alongside of if not at the expense of the masculine, indicates that the body-State system is returning more intensely than ever to the body without an image, approaching ever closer to the inherence of the material, to absolute immanence. It cannot go any further without flipping over into a different dynamic altogether, in which the impersonal and the inorganic completely subsume the human. In the preceding section, we speculated about one such dynamic, assuming a radicalization of transnational capitalism whereby profit eclipsed unity once and for all as the motor of social control. What is important in the present context is that the point of reversal--where the State (in this case, capital-technocratic) shades into the nomadic extreme (the first to inhabit a primarily technological smooth space)--also marks the limit of gender, patriarchy, all fixed hierarchy. That limit is less the neuter than the perpetual underside of the masculine, feminine, and neuter together, that from which they arise and into which they subside, not yet and again. Like the State, it ever arrives. But never before like this. The human is haunted by the masculine, which is possessed of the despot. But the despot is possessed of the body without an image, beckoned by it with growing insistence toward a non-place where no power abides. It is in the same movement that humanity passes to the limit of its own subjection, glimpses a new servitude, and is beckoned by its liberation.