Bush, the unnamed syndrome: an incoherent voice lowering to the point of inaudibility, sounding from a body sapped by derisory or uncaused ailments: disappearing only to reappear as a dog, a general, a missile, all the while never ceasing to be a golfer. Autoimmune-deficient Bush can indeed be as protean as Reagan, in body and in words; his boundaries are too weak, or simply not of the kind, to endow him with a diagnosable form.19 Protean Bush can be, but he is more basically split, just as Reagan was basically fractured. For that is how he functions. The missile split is the most telling. It is the Bush equivalent of Reagan's 1984 Republican Convention speech. The video relay of the missile approaching its target provides the most condensed expression of what Bush was doing by failing to be and mean what he said he meant he was, or what he meant he said he was, or something like that. For example the "education president." Or was it the "environmental president"? Whatever. Bush is the whatever-president, the man without qualities who nominated other men without qualities to top positions (Supreme Court nominees David Souter and Clarence Thomas, who won confirmation by virtue of having no documentable opinions). The excess of unity after which Reagan strove so energetically and which drove his many metamorphoses, supplying his political career with a continual surplus of meanings and symbolisms, was beyond Bush from the start. The closest he came to it was the "thing"-thing of his early Bushspeak period. This is how he explained that "vision-thing" (by which he meant his spiritual vision for the country, not missile sights): "We need to keep America what a child once called 'nearest thing to heaven.' Lots of sunshine, places to swim, and peanut butter sandwiches" ["Run That One By Us Again, George," Arizona Republic, 10 August 1990]. Reagan set course for the promised land, paradise on earth. Wingless Bush would settle for the next best thing--another swim in banality. His war story long ago established that that was the nearest he would get to heaven (too hypothetical). The "thing"-thing was his feeble attempt to grasp what always stayed just out of his reach--fullness of being, meaning, inspiration, panache. It designated vaguely, from a distance ("that thing way over there," that thing that keeps receding even as we speak) what Reagan habitually rubbed up against: political prestige, spiritual glory, symbolic overabundance. It was the residual presence in Bush's discourse of the Reagan excess.20 Reagan was the president of the exponential multiplication of pluses enabled by cuts (minuses). Bush was a singular minus sign, designating no "thing"-thing more convincingly than his own continually reenacted imperceptibility. What dogged Reagan was his propensity to lose bits and pieces of himself. Bush's problem, and his power, is his propensity to lose himself in his surroundings. When Reagan disappeared, he did so ubiquitously and in style. Bush sinks, Bush blends. What he blends into explains what he has been doing through all of this. If Reagan's reign marked the coming out of the unconscious, Bush's term marks the coming out of the military machine in all its technocratized glory, in all its human horror, for the first time since the Viet Nam War, the wounds of which Reagan had "healed."