Bush functions primarily in indirect discourse, which is sometimes attributed to an identifiable live source ("the dog said it," "Sununu wrote it"), but which at the limit is unascribable. For the voice of the Bush-thing, like its body, has melded with an impersonal, fundamentally inanimate, automated command circuit of global reach, a smooth cyberneticized space so integrated that the precise source of actions or words issuing from it is impossible to identify. The technocratic Bush-thing takes "Reagan's" possession mode to the extreme. From the beginning of his first campaign, Bush played on other voices: making the electorate speak the words spoken by Reagan who got them from Eastwood who delivered them on-screen; being spoken for by Millie, by Schwarzkopf, by his script-writers, by missiles. The country went from being possessed by a fractured spirit of Reagan-America to being possessed by an integrated command circuit enabled by a strategically split image. Press preoccuations with First Ladies Nancy Reagan and Barbara Bush can be seen in this light. The "behind every man is a strong woman" cliché gained new currency under the Reagans and continued with the Bushes. Nancy "Doing All We Can" Reagan bore the brunt of the misogynist sniping. Her habit of stepping in and feeding Reagan lines when he faltered led to speculation that she was the real power in the White House.22 As if "power" was ever really localized in the White House--in any one place. As if speech were originary. The idea that there was a domineering presence at the helm was reassuring to those nostalgic for the good old days evoked by so much Reagan imagery when authority seemed a simple thing and essentially good. Having a "harpie" for an authoritative presence was better than none at all. The focus on Nancy was a way of ascribing Ronnie's indirect speech, of stopping the slippage, of controlling the possession-effect. Barbara does not cooperate with this scenario to the same extent. She tends to follow George in self-effacement, as when she takes dictation from Millie, reducing herself to an indirect-discourse relay-station between man and animal.