"The story begins with a close-up of a bottom." That is the opening line of Reagan's first autobiography, written in 1965 for use in his campaign for the governorship of California. At the dawn of his political career, Reagan signposts the body that would serve him so well. "My face was blue from screaming, my bottom was red from whacking, and my father claimed afterward that he was white." [Reagan and Hubler 1981:3]  Reagan points to his body, and it is familial. His body is one with his family, and both are one with the country. By virtue of their color scheme. Red, white, and blue. Reagan habitually draped himself in the flag. It was a constant of his career. One need only think of the decor at Republican conventions. Individual body, family, and country are presented as having a common substance: the fabric of the flag. Their combined strength is embodied in it. It is their sum. Their sum, plus some. For there is a remainder to the equation. Body, family, country add up to a whole greater than the sum of its parts, just as a pattern of stars and stripes adds up to more than a cloth. The flag is not only a materialization of unity; it is the fabric of greatness. In it, three are one. Not just any one: Number One: 'the greatest nation on earth.' The flag is the repository of an excess attributed to terms in an equation. Outside of the equation, the same terms would be noticeably lacking. They would have only an incomplete, more or less brutish existence. The flag elevates and animates them. It is the material embodiment of their 'spirit'--the 'American spirit' incarnate. Those it enthralls attribute it almost magical powers to bring forth and replenish. It is the objectified presence of the subjective essence shared by three interrelated terms in the patriotic equation. As such, it is more precious than the merely mortal terms it brings together. "I don't give a damn," said the veteran, "whether it's the protester's civil right or not. I fought to protect the American flag, not to protect him." [Newsweek, 3 July 1989, p. 18]