In answer to the question of how to form small groups, we tried to find affective mechanisms. For example, in the first event we organized we had a number of pieces of fabric that were very furry and soft with beautiful colours and patterns. To divide the participants into groups, we simply asked people to pick the pieces that most attracted them, and then to use the fabric to make the space for their interaction, by sitting on it or around it or by wrapping themselves in it, whatever moved them. So before the first word was exchanged in the group or the first task begun, people were already in a little affinity-based world that had the feel of an ephemeral home. We furred them into groups. In response to the question of how to move from small groups to  whole-group interaction, we laid  down the enabling constraint that each group had to share, but what they had to share was their process, so that it was forbidden to report. You couldn’t describe what happened, as from an outside perspective. You had to find a way to perform it again, but in a way that was adapted to the larger numbers. You couldn’t report or even translate, you had to transduce. Inventing or improvising these transitions became a big part of the event. It’s like the event’s content was becoming its form, or vice versa. Nothing was going to happen unless everyone helped make it happen. So everybody owned the results. Everyone was actively implicated in making the event. They didn’t deliver, and neither did we. Without the participants’ active involvement, nothing would have happened. Since there was nothing on offer, there was nothing to be had, except what the group collectively made happen. What  we were  reaching for was  what Guattari calls a ‘subject-group’. As with all groups of that kind, what had happened wasn’t immediately clear, because there was no assessable product separable from the process. What was clear at the time was only that the experience had been intense, and collective. Afterwards, things did develop: collaborations grew that had been seeded at the event. Some are still going, three years later. Processual seeds were sown that germinated on other soil. That led us to a second model, of processual dissemination, which we’re still working on.