Brian Massumi: It goes both ways. Although there is no original state of freedom to which we can return, if structures of power are defined by what escapes them, then resistance is as much a part of the collective field as the tendency for capture by techniques of domination. This was Foucault’s basic point: power and resistance are two sides of the same coin. Tendencies towards free action, towards escape from crystallized power structures, are as primary as the tendency towards capture I was just talking about. A powered structure is not all-encompassing. It rises from a field of emergence that includes it. It is plugged into a broader field of activity on which it feeds. That field is astir with tendencies pointing to the potential for different modes of structuration. They may not amplify past the point of incipiency, they may be captured, or simply fail to take and subside back into the field of bare activity from which they came, but still their difference cannot not have been felt at some level, in some way. So even if there is no unsullied state of freedom to return to, there is always a degree of freedom offering the potential for other emergences. There are always counter-tendencies that can be joined, and moved with, proposing themselves for amplification. There is always a margin of manoeuvre. What a body can do is tweak the field – improvise modulations of the field of activity in a way that takes up the offer of these different-order affective tendencies. What a body can do is trigger counteramplifications and counter-crystallizations that defy capture by existing structures, streaming them into a continuing collective movement of escape. If the movement effects an intensification of the collective field through the mutual inclusion in it of reciprocally heightened capacities in contrastive attunement, then the degree of freedom has been increased across the board. Powers of existence have been collectively augmented. This can only occur from within, in situation, flush with the event, in an immediacy of enaction.