Brian Massumi: It seems to me that there’s also a kind of ecology of time in the media environment. That article I wrote in The Guardian was quite a lesson for me because I had never written something journalistic like that, that goes online right away and gets an instant response. In academic publishing, it usually takes a year for something to get into print, and then it’s another year or two before you get any response to it. Writing for online journalism was a very interesting experience. There were different media timelines that intersected around the posting of the article that had different affective tonalities and relational fields attached to them. There were the instantaneous reactions of the comments blog after the article. I’d say 99 per cent of the comments were not only negative, but absolutely vicious. After a few rounds, they weren’t so much responding to the article as baiting each other. This led to a snowballing of derision and aggression. It lasted a couple of days, before the winds of derision subsided. What was ostensibly designed to be a public forum for considered discussion became a forum for fast and furious venting, for affective acting-out based on the presupposition that others’ perceptions and opinions don’t count – the farthest thing imaginable from the rosy image of the public sphere as a realm for sober deliberation, reflection and the concerned sharing of ideas. It’s like that relational field was implanted with the presupposition that such a thing as a relational field does not exist, that everything comes down to personal feelings, and that expression is nothing more than venting them without regard. I think the public sphere – to the extent that such a thing ever existed, and I’m not convinced it did – is becoming more and more like that in all areas. The ‘town halls’ organized during the 2008 US presidential election had a similar ethos. But then, with The Guardian article, there were longer-duration timelines, in a different mode. These took the form of Facebook links and tweets, which operated with a presupposition of a relational field predicated on sharing and with an affective tonality