Brian Massumi: Yes, and when we were initially thinking about the gift and the gift economy of the potlatch – we talked about it last year when we were in Denmark, a year before ‘Generating the Impossible’ – we were captivated by passages in A Thousand Plateaus that discuss an alternative conception of how economy works and what values an economy produces.9 Deleuze and Guattari say that what’s at stake in the economy is the relational field. What sustains an economy isn’t so much its structure – the pre-established order of identified positions or social roles proposed for individuals. What they say is that what’s at stake is how the limits and thresholds of the field play out. Deleuze and Guattari develop a concept of the limit as organizing the relational field, borrowing from marginalist economics but giving it a twist of their own. A relational field is unlimited in the sense that it is full of unactualized potential for value creation, both economic and affective, and for the generation of events and of novelty. But at the same time a relational field is limited in the sense that there are certain points beyond which it does not go. There are thresholds beyond which it flips into a qualitatively different field of relation. They give the example of a tribal society and the production of axes for working the earth. If the production of axes goes beyond a certain quantity, the surplus is apt to be absorbed by another activity – fighting, for example. This might lead to a shift from limited ritual warfare to a new organization of war. This in turn might lead to social stratification around a new kind of warrior caste. The entire nature of the society will change. So there’s a quantitative threshold that coincides with a qualitative tipping point. The qualitative aspect is what really counts. Quantitative accumulation within the usual bounds is just more of the same. Their point is that the quantitative aspect of an economy, which we tend to think is what economics is all about, is doubled by a qualitative order, and that’s where the real, processual differences lie. When a threshold is crossed into a new relational field, everything re-jigs, what is valued in life changes, life is revalued.