Brian Massumi: From my point of view, in current discussions of affect there is often a misunderstanding of what is at stake. The gesture of encapsulating it in an ‘affective turn’, as opposed to the preceding ‘linguistic turn’ or any other sort of turn, assumes that affect is a thing, something that can be separated from other things, like you would put a fork on one side of your plate and the spoon on the other, and then position yourself polemically according to whether  you  think it’s better to scoop or stab your food. It’s a bit Swiftian, like arguing about which end of the egg to open. When you define affect as Spinoza does, as an ability to affect or be affected, it’s clear that it’s a dimension of all activity, whether we see fit to categorize that activity as subjective or objective. It is just as obvious that there is an affective dimension to language. Affect is already on  the  plate,  whatever  your  preferred  intellectual diet, and it lends itself to many kinds of utensils. The point of insisting on the necessity of taking affect into account is not to say that we should think about affect instead of language, or pay attention only to the infrasubjective and infra-objective germinal stirrings of events that Erin was just talking about and forget about subjects or objects. It’s just not an either-or. It’s a question of differing modes of activities that factor into events. The concept of affect, as taken up in a philosophy of immediation, is a way of focusing on the germinal modes of activity that factor into events as they are just beginning, and are not yet fully determined as to where they might lead. It’s a directly relational concept, because you have to think the ‘to affect’ and ‘to be affected’ as two sides of the same coin of the event. Affect is a point of entry into an eventful, relational field of complexity that is already active, and still openended. The point of thinking with affect is to think through our implication in relational fields, and the potential we might find there. There is no general model of affect. The way the past carries over into the new event, which tendencies are  reactivated, in what  mix and with what formative interactions, all of that is completely singular to the situation, so the theory of affect has to be custom tailored to every field of eventformation, and even to every event. It has to be continually reinvented.