Erin Manning: Brian and I have been very involved in this question over the last years. How does language also produce what Guattari would call an existential territory? I think that’s what you are talking about – that traditional instrumental forms of generating so-called knowledge such as the conference are not very good at generating territories that aren’t mimicking and reproducing the territory they have come out of. I mean they don’t generate the new in that sense of a Whiteheadian co-composition. I was thinking about this issue recently in relation to an event we are having this fall called ‘Enter Bioscleave’ that will take place at Arakawa and Gins’s experimental Bioscleave House on Long Island.4 Last week Brian and I were in New York talking to Madeline Gins. All three of us are very engaged in the process of language – very interested in what language can do and particularly interested in its capacities as a concept-building practice to generate modes of existence. Sometimes we hesitate in our collaboration, however, since although our focus is often similar, our language can be quite different. Arakawa and Gins function on the basis of a procedural approach. Over a period of thirty or forty years, they have defined a set of procedures that are both very firmly ensconced in their practice and very mobile, very rethinkable. These procedures are ecological at heart, but do operate from the perspective of what they call the ‘organism that persons’, thereby producing a perspectival approach that in many ways keeps the human at the centre of the inquiry (despite their openness to think across different forms of sentience).5 We at the SenseLab have generated a set of techniques which are perhaps a bit different in their inflections because they have as their focus the ecology of the event. These approaches have a sisterhood and common interest and we know each other’s work well. Yet, despite this, for four or five hours we were trying to understand each other’s language. Not only to understand in a linguistic sense but to be able to mobilize its affective force. What was really generative in this conversation was that Madeline wanted to figure out how to proceduralize our techniques, and we wanted to see how her procedures could open up a thinking of the event. We were truly interested in how the force of language could be used as a technique for both thinking and making across our different vocabularies. And so, instead of debating, we found ourselves in an extremely generative dialogue, composing across modes of inquiry. This created, I think, the beginnings of an existential territory that is difficult to come by in academic circles, where opinions often hold more sway than procedural interventions capable of co-composing techniques and modes of speaking. Such an approach