Brian Massumi: Nietzsche saw the ‘over-human’ as the re-assumption by the human of the animality of the human. So yes, he is very much thinking in the way you are suggesting.
When I was talking about instincts I was talking about something called the ‘supernormal stimulus’, which I prefer to call ‘supernormal tendency’. It came out of early studies of instinct in ethology by Niko Tinbergen. An instinct was thought to be an automatic, machinelike triggering of a stereotyped sequence of actions by a particular stimulus. Tinbergen wanted to know exactly what the stimulus was for particular instinctive behaviours. He tried to isolate the perceptual factors that served as the trigger. He was assuming that there would be a fixed form or gestalt configuration that could be isolated as the stimulus. To his own surprise, he found that it was impossible to isolate a perceptual form that played that role. What he found was that the response was to relations – to a set of linked factors that couldn’t be isolated out, and wasn’t limited a priori to any particular perceptual qualities. He concluded that the stimulus was irreducibly relational, and that these relational stimuli did not work according to any principle of resemblance. He was led to that conclusion by trying to make decoys that resembled the forms that the animals normally encountered in nature, then varying the characteristics of the decoys to see what factors were necessary to prompt a response. He found that there were no elements that could not vary, and that the most ‘natural’ forms actually prompted less ‘passionate’ results from the animals. Tinbergen himself speaks in terms of the passionateness of  the responses.  The  most passionate responses were to deformations affecting more than one perceptual factor at the same time – in other words to changes in the relational field of experience. Not all relational-field deformations were equally impassioning. The ones the animals reacted to the most strongly were ones that intensified the perceptual qualities of the field
for example by heightening contrast. Even after figuring that out, Tinbergen still couldn’t predict the response. It was being improvised. It was in some way spontaneous. Tinbergen  did not really  know what to  do with that, because it didn’t fit his theoretical framework. He just threw up his hands and said, it’s forever a mystery. But we can draw the conclusion that there is a tendency towards deformation that runs in the direction of increased experiential intensity. This tendency is inherent to instinct itself, so that it is in the nature of instinct to create variations on its own operation, from a spontaneity of experience. Instinct is creative by nature.