I was trying to say that there are two logics happening at the same time. The two always co-occur, but you can attend to one at the expense of the other. For example, you can count the sides of the virtual triangle. But while you’re doing that, you are not experiencing the immediacy of the pop-out effect. You’re not attending to the surprise of the emergence of a triangle that you cannot not see even though it isn’t there. There is a mutual implication – a co-implication – of the diverse and the unitary as aspects of the same event. In order to account for the event, you have to use a kind of logic that is about how different aspects co-compose, how they are mutually included in the same event. You miss the event if you put the unitary and the diverse, the emergent and the given, into opposition to each other. The pop-out triangle is the occurrent unity of that diversity. It would not be there without that diversity. The diversity conditions the appearance of the triangle, but that emergence is not reducible to them. This is a very simple example that is in some ways very limited. You might still be tempted to think about it in terms of an opposition between the physical and the mental. For example, you could make a dichotomy between the material conditions – the ink on the page or pixels on the screen – and the subjective effect. But even in this simple example, it is more complicated than that, because the conditions of the triangle’s emergence extend to other factors enveloped in the sensuous form of the corners: our body’s tendency to fill in the gaps, and in particular its arguably innate orientation towards Platonic forms like the triangle. The materiality of the corners would be nothing, for the event of the triangle, without this non-sensuous contribution of tendency – which comes to expression in the form of the nonsensuous triangle. The triangle is also non-sensuous because its lines do not correspond per se to any sense input. What we often like to separate out as physical as opposed to mental or subjective always criss-cross, they always envelop each other – they are always complexly mutually including.