Now, instead of corners of a triangle, let’s take the example of a group of people in a room at a political discussion.  If  you  consider  each  person  individually, you’re in the domain of interest. Each person brings to the  discussion  their  own  already-arrived-at  positions and priorities, and they represent those interests in the discussion. But that is not all they bring. They also bring their tendencies and desires – in a word, their potential to become. The potential of individuals to become does not necessarily coincide with their interests as alreadyconstituted individuals. It does not necessarily coincide with their personal interests, as narrowly defined according to prevailing criteria of rationality or utility. Through the  encounter  with  the  group,  something  else  might occur to them. Who they are as individuals might be modulated  by  emergent  field  potentials  –  angles  of approach to the problem they would never have thought of  individually,  paths  of  action  that  hadn’t  presented themselves  before.  To  the  extent  that  these  novelties appear as a function of the group dynamic, the individuals involved are coming out of themselves. They are coming out of their simple diversity as individuals, and coming into concern for each other, in an emergence that  takes  them  all  up  together.  Just  as  the  triangle emerged  from  the  differential  between  the  diversity of what became its corners, this political coming-intoconcern of separate individuals emerges from the differential between their respective tendencies and desires. So, on the human level of politics and ethics, care has to do with the co-composition of potentials towards the emergence of an extra-being of the individuals involved – a more-than-individual expression of their comingtogether to shape a relational milieu that belongs  to them collectively. The ‘more-than-individual’ is a term from Gilbert Simondon. He calls the fields of potential we have been talking about ‘transindividual’. From this perspective, politics is about the transindividual modulation of fields of relation rather than the representation of a subjective point of view or personal interests – or even group interests. Interest is just the wrong concept. It begins with what separates, and doesn’t give the tools to get beyond that division. It’s a concept that is divisive by nature, and we see the political consequences of that every day.