Rather than oppositions, affect works with qualitative differentials: the integral mutual inclusion of qualitatively different potentials for expression on the same spectrum. It is always a question of degree. A pre-verbal human is already infra-linguistic. As is a nonhuman animal, to the degree to which it tends to express the mental pole of activity which language carries to its highest power.1
Affect negates freedom.  This is the unjustified conclusion some commentators have drawn from discussions  in affect theory of the famous ‘missing half-second’. This  refers  to  neurophysiologist  Benjamen  Libet’s discovery that there is up to a half-second lag in the conscious dawning of an action from the onset of its physiological stirrings. In the lag, the coming action is moving from its own ‘readiness potential’ to its actual expression: from its in-acting as potential to its acting-out in gesture. What has bothered many people is that the transition is always already on its way nonconsciously, which is taken to mean that it negates freedom of decision. The idea that this nonconscious incipiency of action contradicts freedom must be revised in the light of what was said earlier about the  mutual  inclusion of  mental  and physical movements in every act’s emergence. The erroneous idea that affect negates freedom results from a refusal to fundamentally rethink the body/mind duality: it construes the nonconscious activity of the body as purely ‘physical’ or ‘physiological’ as opposed to ‘mental’, and equates the physical with ‘unthinking’ mechanism. Affect theory, quite to the contrary, presupposes the mutual inclusion  in every event of  a physical pole (defined as the tendency of an event to conform to the ordering it inherits from the immediate past) and a mental pole (defined as the tendency to surpass the given, to produce the new and generate surprise). Affect in no way excludes freedom. It does, however, require it to be redefined. The redefinition is necessary because the workings of affect do contradict freedom, if freedom in any way implies the body/mind, physical/mental duality. These dualities are so entrenched in conceptions of freedom that it is difficult for many to bend their thinking-feeling past them. Received ideas about freedom style it as the mental act of an individual psychological subject, or as an unconditioned decisional act of an individual will. This divorces it from the body. But there is no unconditioned decision. And there is no individual, outside its own transindividual becoming, which takes effect through affect (not in reflection). The notion of individual will is sterile: it posits a vacuum of subjective reflection in which volition functions in glorious isolation, unconstrained and unconditioned. This is not freedom. This is a fiction. The nature– culture continuum abhors a vacuum. Freedom is not a property of a subject. There is no pure capacity of decision unmarked by necessity. Freedom is an achievement, attained of necessity. It is not exercised, it is invented, through the enabling modulation of constraints. Its invention is situational. Situations are eventful. And events are relational. Subjects don’t decide in a vacuum. Events decide, in relation. Freedom pertains not to the individual, but to process. Freedom is the transindividual autonomy of the affective process to generate surprises. It is not without physicality – but it constitutes a triumph of mentality (once again by its affective-processual definition as the capacity to surpass the given and generate the new). Do not protest your freedom. Enact surprise. Speculate that.