This ethological concern  for dispositives, conducts and techniques is closely tied   to  this   issue’s   investment  in  research-creation.  The   mandate  of research-creation as we understand it is precisely to stage  a productive encounter between “theory” and  “practice” to produce and  share  not only new knowledge but new modes of knowing as a kind of feeling. Because of this openness of the question how one will come to know, research-creation is always a veritable adventure, an experiment with  the option to fail. This is one of the things  that  distinguishes research-creation from more conventional, tried-and-tested  methodologies. The  present issue  of Inflexions grew  out  of a research-creation event  of the  same  title,  held  on April  28-30, 2016 at the University of Amsterdam. There, participants experimented with  activating forms  of knowledge production that  engage and   work   with   exhaustion  in  an   attempt  to  tackle   the   occasionally exhausting aspects of conference participation itself.  Conferences can  be exhausting  not  only  because they  are  long  and   repetitive in  structure (usually a series  of panels that  regroup 20-minute presentations) but  also because the standardized modes of exchanging knowledge limit what  can be   thought  and   what   can   happen.  Thus,   while   they   are   physically exhausting, their  contents are often  very  remote from  exhausting what  is possible in terms  of thought. At the  same  time,  it must  be admitted, the conference model  gives a sense of security because it is grounded in a set of familiar expectations and  because it guarantees the efficient  exchange of a deliverable  from   its   producer  (presenter)  to   a  consumer  (the   panel audience). Perhaps it was the comforting lure of the familiar that caught us at  some   points  throughout  the   event.   Perhaps  it  was   the   university environment itself with  its particular conditions: tables, chairs,  fluorescent lights,  blackboards, projector (sounds), screens,  schedules, the colours  and scents of an institutional building, etc. In any case, the event had a tendency of seeking  refuge in the conventional mould of the conference presentation. Ironically, this  falling  back onto  the familiar made  the event  all the more exhausting. What  gave  a  sense  of  security to  the  individual became   a