Semblances, by whatever name—pure appearances, self-abstracting perceptions, thinking-feelings—occur in so-called natural perception. That’s a misleading category if ever there was one—as if seeing a leaf motif were somehow less natural than seeing a leaf. Still, there is an important difference. The perception of any object also involves the thinking-feeling of a semblance. It’s just that the semblance is backgrounded. An object is a semblance to the extent that we think-feel things like its backedness, volume, and weight. But that thinking-feeling slips behind the flow of potential action that the objectness suggests. We let the vitality affect, the “uncanny” apprehension of the qualitative dimension, pass unnoticed. Instead, we orient toward the instrumental aspect of the actions and reactions that the perception affords. The self-reflexivity of the experience is backgrounded. The sense of relational aliveness disappears into the living. The “uncanniness” of the way in which the object appears as the object it is—as if it doubled itself with the aura of its own qualitative nature—disappears into a chain of action. We live out the perception, rather than living it in. We forget that a chair, for example, isn’t just a chair. In addition to being one it looks like one. The “likeness” of an object to itself, its immediate doubleness, gives every perception a hint of déjà vu. That’s the uncanniness. The “likeness” of things is a qualitative fringe, or aura to use a totally unpopular word, that betokens a moreness to life. It stands in the perception for perception’s passing. It is the feeling in this chair of past and future chairs “like” it. It is the feeling in this chair that life goes on. It presents, in the object, the object’s relation to the flow not of action but of life itself, its dynamic unfolding, the fact that it is always passing through its own potential. It’s how life feels when you see it can seat you. In Antonio Damasio’s terms, it’s the “feeling of what happens,” that background feeling of what it’s “like” to be alive, here and now, but having been many elsewheres and with times to come. Art brings that vitality affect to the fore.