BM I’m not at all denying that perceptual artifacts lend themselves to regimes of power, or envelop in themselves power potentials as well as powers of resistance. What I’m saying is that they can do this because of their autonomy, as an effect of it. I mentioned before that a semblance in itself is a kind of “living-in” of potential, in the sense of holding life potential in immanence—wholly immanent to the semblance’s appearance. How can a framed picture presenting a fragment of a scene hold a wholeness of potential in it? By including what doesn’t actually appear, but that is necessarily involved in the thinking-feeling of what does. A semblance is a form of inclusion of what exceeds the artifact’s actuality. That’s Leibniz’s monadic principle. Leibniz’s monads are not “closed” in the sense that they are limited. They’re closed because they’re saturated, because they hold within themselves their own infinity. There’s just no room for any more. They have their own “moreness,” in how they potentially continue, how they self-distance, stretch themselves further than they presently go. A monad is the semblance of a world. It is the worldly way in which, in Whitehead’s words, each thing “essentially involves its own connection to the universe of other things . . . an infinitude of alternative potentialities” (Whitehead 1968, 66). The monadism of a semblance is the way a thing includes its outside in itself. The semblance is a little absolute of “immediately given relation,” as James puts it (James 1996b, 280). The great absolute is the Hegelian totality of self-sameness that “includes its own other” (1996b, 271) in its all-encompassing self-identity. In contrast, the little absolute includes its own other in such a way that its identity “telescopes and diffuses into other reals” (1996b, 272). It includes its own others dispositionally, “doubling monadology with a nomadology” (Deleuze 1993, 137, translation modified). The little absolute is not so much closed as it is virtually in-folding and out-folding. This makes it a fragmentary totality, because it folds from its own singular perspective, and the “others” that it includes reciprocally include it, equally telescoped and diffused into their singular worldy perspectives. The telescopings and diffusings don’t overlap perfectly. They don’t fit harmoniously together. They are incommensurably mutually including. Each semblance is a world-fragment including all the others from its own perspective. This makes the universe they reciprocally compose a co-construct organized according to what Guattari calls a principle of “transmonadism” (Guattari, 1995, 112-116). Benjamin, in his own transmonadic vocabulary, says that the semblance is a “smallest totality” (Benjamin 1996c, 225). An artwork, understood in terms of its semblance, is a whole relational world, in the transmonadic sense of being a “little absolute” dispositionally expressing “an infinitude of alternative potentialities.”