How, he asks, does an angry person know he’s angry the next moment, even if it’s just a half-second later? He isn’t reflecting, he doesn’t conclude that he’s angry. He just is, still. He finds himself still in his anger. The anger is the in-ness of that moment,  as it was the in-ness of  the preceding moment, and the two moments connect and communicate by overlapping in it. The affective tonality of anger is not the content of the moments. It’s their shared in-ness, their mutual immanence. The angry content is the actual angry words and gestures that repeat and vary from one moment to the next. The anger was the qualitative vanishing point of the last moment, the angriness it trailed out in, and in which the next moment naturally found itself, with no perceptible transition. It’s like an experiential dissolve. 
There’s no determinate transition in a dissolve, just a continuous fading-out overlapping with a continuous fading-in. The point at which the changeover occurs is imperceptible by nature. It is purely abstract. But it must have happened. We know it did, because even if it wasn’t perceived, it was unmistakably felt. Known-felt, thought-felt. It’s a virtual affective event. The thought-felt continuity of the anger is the virtual event of an unperceived background continuity leading from one moment (or occasion) to the next. The anger doesn’t determine what happens one-to-one, specific cause to linear effect. This “affective tone” (Whitehead 1967a, 176) is not a cause in that sense. It’s a carry-over. What it does is carry-across the qualitative nature of what happens. It gives an abstract, purely qualitative background continuity to the two moments. The actual words spoken may skip. To the extent that they’re angry words, it’s almost assured that they will, they won’t logically connect from one moment to the next. That’s in the nature of angry words. The angry gestures will also be staccato. That’s also their nature. It’s their defining quality. What is actually said and done from one moment to the next is discontinuous by nature. But something  continues,  thought-felt  across the gaps. In Whitehead’s words, it’s a “nonsensuous perception,” a virtual perception of “the immediate past as surviving to be again lived through in the present” (Whitehead 1967a, 182). Every situation, whatever its lived tonality, is sundered by these nonsensuously lived micro-intervals filled only qualitatively and abstractly by affect. Like the vanishing point, they wrap back around to surround. What Whitehead calls affective tonality is something we find ourselves in, rather than finding in ourselves. An embracing atmosphere that is also at the very heart of what happens because it qualifies the overall feel. Affective tonality is what we normally call a “mood” (Whitehead 1967a, 246). As Gilbert Ryle says, moods are the weather patterns of our experience. They’re not actual contents of it (Ryle