V2   Still no example.
BM  OK. One thing that’s happening more and more in interactive art is a fusing of vision with movement. This is operating at the same nexus between visual dynamics and kinesthesia as Irwin’s relational art does, but in a very different way because there is in fact interaction. An example I saw a couple of years ago was at a work-in-progress session at Sha Xin Wei’s Topological Media Lab, which works on responsive environment design. One of the projects was by Michael Montanaro and Harry Smoak. The concept was simple. There were two dancers going through a choreographed routine on stage in front of a large screen. A motion-sensing camera analyzed their movement. When the movement reached a certain qualitative threshold—a certain speed and density of gesture—a video window opened up on the screen. But it wasn’t at all like a Windows window, thankfully. It was like a visual bubble that grew from nothing and expanded. It was like vision was flowering out of the screen, expressing a quality of movement, its speed and density, purely visually, in a sight that doubled the actual movement. It was a semblance of movement transducing it onto a different register of experience and into a differently dimensioned space, a surface. The translation was analogue, as all transduction is according to Simondon, even though technically it was digitally achieved, because what was expressed on the screen was a quality of the movement. A quality of the movement was made visible with and through the actual, digitally projected image of it. The screen also made otherwise perceptible another quality of movement—its rhythm. When the speed and density subsided, the vision bubble started to break apart at the edges, emanating micro-bubbles of vision, then collapsed into itself. You got a strong sense of thinking-feeling qualities of movement, and not just seeing bodies in movement and their images. This sensation doubled the technical connection between the bodies in movement and the movement on screen with a more encompassing semblance, a lived quality of the interaction underway, a semblance of the global situation. This is what I meant when I said that the ins and outs of the interaction can fold back in together to produce a semblance of the whole interaction. Toni Dove’s interactive project, Spectropia, works at this same perceptual nexus, between body-movement and its transduction on screen, but with the added dimension of cinematic narrative. She uses the narrative element, among other things, to translate the interaction into a participatory production of cinematic point of view and even cinematic time. It’s all done with a conscious engagement with the “uncanniness” of the interaction—a very ambitious and exciting project in what interactive cinema can be.