Given that the question of technique is at the core of the approach I’ve been outlining, I like to think of it as a speculative pragmatism, understood as a species of empiricism closely akin to William James’s radical empiricism. This way of formulating might be more companionable to more people. As James defined it, there are five guidelines of radical empiricism. The first it shares with classical empiricism:
1. Everything that is, is in perception (read, if you will: in prehension). Radical empiricism begins to part company with classical empiricism with the next guideline:
2. Take everything as it comes. You cannot pick and choose according to a priori principles or pre-given evaluative criteria. Since things come in lumps as well as singly, this means that:
3. Relations must be accounted as being as real as the terms related. In other words, relations have a mode of reality distinct from that of the discrete objects that appear as terms in relation. The mode of reality of relation is immanent, lived intensely in under conditions of mutual inclusion (worldly activation). The separable terms that come to be in relation come in a mode of extrinsic connection, governed by the law of the excluded middle. They are extensively lived-out (functional interaction). The living-in and the living-out are contrasting poles, and coincidentphases, of the same ontogenetic process. The sense of “relation” and of “real” change significantly depending on which ontogenetic level the focus is on. It follows from this, in light of the first guideline, that:
4. Relations are not only real, they are really perceived, and directly so. Relations not only have their own mode of reality, but each has its own immediate mode of appearance. The final guideline says that the vast majority of what is, in perception, actually isn’t:
5. “Ninety-nine times out of a hundred,” James writes, the terms and relations that appear “are not actually but only virtually there” (1996a, 69, 71–72). They are present beyond the frame, on the “chromatic fringes”
(73) and at the processual vanishing point, or “terminus,” in James’s vocabulary, where each event turns in on its own unfolding toward its tendential end. “Mainly, we live on speculative investments” (88). The empirical world is ninety-nine percent lived speculation, a surfing “on the front edge of a wave-crest” of “tendency” (69). In order to avoid a romanticism of connection, James drums it in that guideline number two, take everything as it comes, means that you have to take continuity and discontinuity as they come. The beach-falls with the wave-cresting. You have to give each its due. By which time this has continued quite long enough.