What James calls the “meaning of truth”—the true meaning of words— is the pragmatic potential to begin a movement nonsensuously and terminate it in a sense-perception satisfying an anticipation. This is likely what Benjamin had in mind in the opening quotes of this chapter when he said that what is meant is the sensible. Taken out of context, Benjamin’s statement might be taken to endorse the reductive view of language according to which its operation essentially boils down to a one-to-one correspondence  between  words  and  things.  James’s  observation  that  the correspondence is left at odd ends ninety-nine percent of the time seriously skews the putative symmetry between language and its sense validation, scrambling any unambiguous anchoring of language and thought in referential function. The relation of language to the sensible, even in the rare cases it does terminate, is not fundamentally referential, but demonstrative: that way; there we go; this is it. Words point-toward, in active tending, more than they pin down, in logically fixed designation (James 1996a, 55). “Pure demonstration,” however, “is impossible,” Whitehead says (1964, 10). (Oddly, he also uses the challenge of finding a campus building as an example of a terminus—evidence perhaps of philosophers’ legendary propensity to lose themselves in thought). Pure demonstration is impossible, according to Whitehead, because a demonstrative gesture always takes place  against  an  inexhaustible  background  of  shared  presuppositions. Without a tacit truncation of what is meant, the tending-toward would get lost in a thicket of complicating detail. It is necessary to skip potential intermediaries all the more concertedly, in order to get anywhere with language. The impossibility of pure demonstration, Whitehead observes, means that demonstration is always essentially speculative (Whitehead 1964, 6). Language has more fundamentally to do with speculation than designation, or any form of one-to-one correspondence between words and things. There is always, implied in a linguistic gesture and the thinking it advances, the tacit complication of an ambulation—the potential unfolding of an event against a weltering background. “Thus the ultimate fact for sense-awareness is the event” (Whitehead 1964, 15). The ultimate fact — the truth — is the event and the welter of potential steps it navigates.