There are different strategies for dealing with the duplicity of the problematic field. Arved Ashby (2010) charts in detail how Gustav Mahler followed his tendency to “become a musical absolutist” (224) by out-treating the “quasi-linguistic meanings that arise from orderings of functional units” of musical composition (226). He worked concertedly “against the incursion of discourse, against words and obligatory meaning,” against any “supplementary message” spinning off adventitiously from the music or grafting itself on it parasitically (234, 237). His project was to express as purely as possible a musical force of composition per se. His particular strategy was to out-treat extra-elements of the language species by embracing a different species of content-budding, this one inherent to the direct perception of music by virtue of the local signs it necessarily employs. Heard rhythm has a spontaneous tendency to transit amodally into virtual visual motion, thought-felt in nonsensuous similarity to it. There is a possibly innate amodal attunement between heard rhythm, visual rhythm, and kinesthesia-proprioception that makes it difficult not to see a rhythm perceptually felt in one of these modalities automatically in another. Few are those who can hear music without the virtual visual accompaniment of thought-felt movement patterns of color and light. Few are those who are not moved to reenact the hearing as it happens with virtual gestures. These nonsensuous similarities are just asking for translation into content, for example through conventional associations embedded in language (such as the association between a high tone and a rising gesture or visual movement, connoting hope, for example).
Mahler embraced the budding of visual thinking-feeling in music, while suppressing the “Romantic ideas of extramusical illustration” (234). His music would be intensely imagistic, but he would make it an “imagery without reference” (237). The technique he employed was to make the composition “so vivid and alive” that what it made felt would be “dramatic instantaneities” that would be “like” (a semblance of) the “performance of a real event” (224, 226). To manage content-formation, the semblance of event would have to be taken to the extreme. It would have to be overcharged, carrying an excess of dramatically instantaneous musical force. This was accomplished by de-limiting the imagistic element: ensuring that the music would be so vivid and alive that it would simultaneously carry