Activist philosophy is not a subjectivist philosophy either. It does not presuppose a subject, only “something” going on. Beginning with eventactivity rather than the status of the subject makes activist philosophy a fundamentally noncognitive philosophy. Rather than asking what’s doing, cognitivist approaches ask what the subject can know of the world, as if the subject does not come to itself already in the midst but rather looked upon the world at a reflective remove that it is philosophy’s job to overcome. The cognitivist paradigm equates the subject with the knower, and the object with the known. Whitehead remarks that to begin there is to get off to a false start (Whitehead 1967a, 175). As James vigorously argues, if you start by presupposing a subject-object divide, there is no way of preventing the separation from deepening into an abyss. How can the subject cross the divide to reattach itself to the objectivity “out there” on the other side? Doubt takes over. What if there is no other side? What if it’s all illusion? Descartes curls up into the safety of his stove, coming out only when his God is ready to vouchsafe a connection to reality for him (Descartes 1996, xxii). Less divinely baked philosophies invent ingenious ways of tightrope walking the abyss, or go through contortions to deny it is there. For James, these amount to so much acrobatics. An essential divide is presupposed the moment the categories of knower and known are overlaid upon the subject and the object, and no amount of subsequent maneuvering, however ingeniously contortionist, will smooth it over. The problem is that any way you twist it, the knowing is still in the subject and the known is still right where it was on the other side. What can guarantee that they correlate to each other? With all certainty, says James, nothing. Any purported solution is smoke and mirrors. Cognitivist philosophies may purport to walk a graceful line between the subject and the object, but what they really do is take a run at making a “self-transcending” magic leap across the chasm (James 1996a, 52). They are “saltatory”: desparate attempts to magically jump an abyss of their own assuming. Or failing that to make it disappear with a flourish of the metaphysical wand (James 1978, 233, 245–246).