The immediation of the cultural, drawn into a continuum with the natural toward a nexus-expressing event, makes it possible to begin adding elements back in without losing the directness of intensity of experience that Irwin was after from the start. His tendency toward subtraction could now reverse itself while continuing the same movement toward increasing intensity. The work could go into hallways and staircases, then exit buildings, lodging itself in the spaces between them, as well as into gardens and groves. Fusion-effectiveness unlimited. Irwin had de-limited his own practice. Its intensity bled outward in ever-expanding circles, like an inkspot on absorbant paper, or an oil spot on pavement. Its technique of existence absorbed itself into its surroundings, irridescing across their surface.
Even before the artwork moves out into the world, it already carries an ambulatory effect. When you leave one of the scrim installations, an aftereffect follows you. You feel yourself thinking-feeling differently as you exit the gallery and walk down the street. The feeling of perceiving perception’s occurring to itself stays with you. There is something a little odd about the perspective of the street. You are aware of thinking-feeling the depths of the city as you walk and look. The constitutive collaboration between vision and proprioception is still reflecting itself in an ongoing of its event. There is an odd feeling, like a very faint déjà vu, that you are doubleexperiencing the world. You are consciously experienced the semblancing of experience—its double order; your double existence—that normally remains in the nonconscious background of everyday life. Perception feels itself renewed. Because your experience is tarrying in its nascency. This is powerfully suggestive, but nonspecifically. This should make a difference. Could make a difference. But how? Which difference? Could/should: speculative. How/which?: pragmatic. Walking down the street has rebecome speculatively pragmatic, in a way that is immediately thought-felt. The artwork has already made a difference. An incipient difference, in the dynamic form of a semblance of an ecological truth. What is left is to see how or if it will continue to play out, taking-in other elements, playingon other familiarities, conventions, articulate readings, immediating its way out and down world-lines yet to be invented.