First Movement: To Dance a Storm
1. This is what Whitehead calls a “conceptual prehension,” in contradistinction to a “physical prehension.” The basic difference is that a physical prehension entails a “conformation of feelings” and a conceptual prehension introduces “novelty” (here construed in terms of the production of a “nonsensuous similarity”) (Whitehead 1978, 26, 33, 238 and passim).
2. “Universe” here alludes to Félix Guattari’s concept of “incorporeal universes” (also called “consciential universes,” “universes of value,” and “universes of reference”). By “reference” Guattari means not a semantic content or designated object but rather a “meta-modelization of transassemblage relations” (Guattari 1989, 31). The “archive” of nonsensuous similarity as analyzed in this essay is such a metamodelization, as directly lived. Guattari develops the theory of universes of reference throughout Cartographies schizoanalytiques (1989). See also Chaosmosis (Guattari 1995), where the universe of reference is defined in terms of “non-discursive incorporeal complexity” (60). Guattari’s concept of “universes” is closely allied to Ruyer’s concept of “virtual domains” (Ruyer 1952).
3. “Form of life” is being used here in a sense close to Agamben’s (2000), where thought and vitality are one: “by form-of-life . . . I mean a life that can never be separated from its form, a life in which it is never possible to isolate something such as naked life” (3–4). “I call thought the nexus that constitutes forms of life in an inseparable context as form-of-life. I do not mean by this the individual exercise of an organ or of a psychic faculty, but rather an experience, an experimentum that has as its object the potential character of life and human intelligence. To think does not mean merely to be affected by this or that thing, by this or that content of enacted thought, but rather at once to be affected by one’s own receptiveness and experience in each and every thing that is thought a pure power of thinking” (9).
4. The genericness of the affective tonality is the nonconscious bud of what are called the “categorical affects.” Categorical affects are genre of affective experience that have come to be consciously named and identified, and as a result are understood as the subjective content of certain moments of experience. This separates them from their eventness, from their sheer occurring, and makes them a noun. This substantivizing as content renders them in certain respects communicable independently of their event (disqualifying them from the status of form-of-life, as defined by Agamben in note 3 above). Their separation from their own event delivers them to techniques of mediation. Mediatable affect is what in earlier work I have termed “emotion” (Massumi 2002, 27–28). Emotion is a particular mode of abstraction from the full affective dimensionality of affective attunement. Its mediatability makes it more accessible to conventional expression and manipulation, which in many everyday situations makes it more salient. This can obscure the primacy and