ubiquity of vitality affects. In fact, their very ubiquity tends to background them in many habitual situations. “Vitality forms are hard to grasp because we experience them in almost all waking activities. They are obscured by the felt quality of emotions [the affective tonality that delivers them to content] as it accompanies them” (Stern 2010, 20). For a more prolonged discussion of the transition from affective vital-eventness to emotional life-content, see Massumi (2005, 37–39). The singulargeneric was discussed above (chapter 2) in terms of the “likeness” of an object to itself that makes each singular encounter with the object teem with a belonging to others of its kind (the object as semblance). The discussion of the singular-generic was aimed at understanding the way in which an object is actually of the nature of an event (an iteration in an event-series, or developing world-line). In this chapter, it is a question more directly of events, and semblances of events. The “regions” of the nonsensuous universe of qualities of life are Ruyer’s virtual “domains” (which he similarly defines in terms of nonlocal linkage, or in his vocabulary “nonlocal liaisons”) (Ruyer 1952, 95–131). Stern uses a concept of the singular-generic without calling it that.
5. The parent-child example should not be misunderstood as suggesting a developmental origin for amodal perception in the life of the individual. Quite the opposite. Direct, nonsensuous perception of relation is the condition of emergence of the individual itself. That condition of emergence follows the individual at every step, doubling each objective coming-together of forms she encounters or participates in with a “sui generis” experience of relation. From one encounter to the other, the experience of relation changes—composing a sui generis experience of becoming. This nonsensuous feeling of becoming is the feeling of being alive: vitality (Stern 2010). On the developmental question, Stern cites research demonstrating that amodal perception is innate (1985, 38–42). His approach to developmental psychology appeals to amodal perception to explain how a “sense of self” emerges relationally, with the capacity to continue to become.
6. The creative power of language and thought can be considered hallucinatory as opposed to delusional. There is a hallucinatory dimension to every experience to the exact extent to which it is creative, and thus has no preconstituted object (Deleuze 1993, 93). This hallucinatory power is the “power of the false” discussed later.
7. The focus in this chapter on the ways in which language and thought go together should in no way be read to imply that they must go together: that they are necessarily bound to each other by nature. As the rest of this chapter will attempt to show, nonsensuous event-traces can be manipulated nonverbally (in ritual, in dance, in music, among other ways). These nonverbal operations qualify as thought every bit as much as language-borne operations involving vitality affects and nonsensuous similiarities do. There is true thought in nonverbal beings. This applies as much  to  animals  as  to  nonverbal  humans,  such  as  so-called  “low-functioning”