autists. On animal thought, see Massumi (forthcoming a). On autistic thought and experience, see Manning and Massumi (forthcoming a) and Manning (forthcoming a). When thought and language do go effectively together, it is because each has the power in its own right to operate virtually, and mechanisms are in place to effectively combine their virtual powers. It should be noted that just as there are modes of thought that are nonverbal, there also are uses of language divorced from thought. Among these are conventional uses of language (of the kind falling under the rubric of common sense), and uses of language for personal expression in a way that is free of both delusion and effective ambulation (opinion).
8. There is not the space in this book to ground this discussion of ritual in a particular ritual tradition, which properly should be done in order to respect the singularity of techniques of existence. The understanding of ritual expressed here does, however, come out of an engagement over many years with a singular ritual tradition, through my long collaboration with Kenneth Dean. Dean is an ethnographer of esctatic popular religious practices of Fujian province in southern China. He has followed in painstaking empirical detail the revival of the unique syncretism of the region since the end of the Cultural Revolution (Dean 1998). He has recently supplemented his scholarly publications with a documentary film, Bored in Heaven: A Film About Ritual Sensation, for which I served as an adviser during the on-location shooting and editing (Dean 2010). The discussion of ritual here doesn’t begin to do justice to the complexity of ritual practice and its creation of really experienced virtual spaces that are eventfully productive of their own pragmatic truths. In the case of Chinese ritual, one of its most egregious omissions on the speculative front is the interplay between microcosmic and macrocosmic dimensions of cosmological space enacted in bodily performance. On the pragmatic side, the worst omission is the actuality of the practices—the fact that they are not archaic holdovers  but are actively, integrally, and co-constitutively intertwined with contemporary events associated with the penetration of global capitalism into what was one of China’s first “special economic zones” opened to lead the transition from communism.