The notion of non-connective relation encapsulated in the phrase relation-of-nonrelation changes the meaning of “participation.” While at first sight participation may seem to have evaporated, it has actually redoubled. It comes once in the fielding of the multiplicity of contributory elements. The multitude of atmospheric particles—each of which can be considered an occasion of experience in its own right—create the conditions for the strike of lightning by entering into a commotion of mutual interference and resonance. Each actively participates in the production of the wholefield effects that energize the night sky for the coming event. The wholefield effects are a dynamic expression of each contributory element’s remote participation in every other’s activity. The singularity of each element’s activity is fused in the general field activity whose tension potentiates the event, and against which the added novelty of the flash stands out, in the contrasting brightness of its own special activity. The participation of the conditioning elements occurs at a distance: between the elements; across the intervals actually separating them. The event comes strikingly into itself against the background of what has now become its contrasting field of emergence. It sheers off from its field of emergence, into its own absolute individuality of occurrence. The event has partaken of the potential bequeathed it by the general background activity. This sheer partaking of potential is the second participation involved in the concept of the relation-of-nonrelation. Here, participation is partitive (disjunctive or separative), in occurrent answer to the fusional participation of the fielding (which is conjunctive in the envelopmental sense of a dynamic mutual inclusion). The event, seen in this striking light, is doubly participatory—but nowhere connective. It is nonlocal. Its conditions are fielded at a distance, and the dazzle of its culmination distances itself from the field of its emergence, in striking contrast to it (on ontogenetic contrast, see chapter 3).