The process of bodying is, as Simondon would say, a continuous case of in-formation: “information is that by which the incompatibility of a nonresolved system becomes an organizational dimension in its resolution: information supposes a change in the phase of a system, since it supposes a first preindividual state that individuates according to the discovered organization” (1989, 22). Information has little to do with a communicational process and even less with a linear one. Information activates a singular form-taking. Information: “internal resonance of a system in the process of individuating, the power radiating from one domain of individuation to another” (Combes 1999, 105). Information activates the coupling of force and form. The individual, or what I am here calling a body, is a process of information, composite and compositional, that singularly resolves but only long enough to activate new phasings. Think the individual as the remarkable point (as Deleuze would say) and the bodying as the complex process continuously informed and informing by the effect of this singularization. Information does not presuppose an already-existing matter-form. Information creates the potential for an immanent organization that activates the body’s coming to be this or that and its de-forming into a field of relation, an ecology of a body-becoming. Becoming is not pure continuity. It is continuous dephasing, carrying a process across thresholds. The process is nonlinear, its field the topological surface of life always in co-composition with the forces of a life. A body does not evolve according to a past becoming present becoming future, nor does it evolve in a pure philogeny. Force of life creates blocks of becoming—uneasy alliances: “There is a block of becoming that takes hold of the cat and baboon, the alliance between which is effected by a C virus” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 238). Life in-formed is life in-forming, coursing through the “between-times,” the “betweenmoments” of its bursts into coupling, in collusion (Deleuze 2007, 391).