Deleuze calls forgetting the “nth power of memory” (1994, 140). Forgetting is how memory expresses itself in the event of the now. Without the nth power, without forgetting as the dark precursor of memory in the making, memory risks falling into transcendence, into the infinitely regressive search for meaning. This brings with it a nihilist will to power that holds to preimposed associations and recognitions, making  superficial links between a preconstructed then and now, bridging regression into a linear flow. Such nihilism holds onto the past as though it could be transported fully-formed into the present, as though it could be known as such, and re-creates the present in its image. Then, it polices this image, holding it to its unchanging self. The Being of the what. The music video in Waltz with Bashir subverts this tendency. The love boat fades into the impossibility of remembering, drifting into the amber-gray foreground of the ineffable as it moves across the shifting surface of the future-passing.
The second music video begins with a man walking onto the beach holding a gun. Looking straight at the camera, the sun rising, the soldier takes his gun and uses it to play air guitar to the tune of Cake’s “Beirut,” the words altered from its original “I Bombed Korea.”21 This scene as it unfolds is a provocative replay of the beginning of Apocalypse Now. In this, the most obvious of the music video series, the no-time of military downtime is foregrounded, making the crystal of time felt, riffing as it does on the unassignable limit where the virtual and the actual coincide, “each playing the role of the other” (Deleuze 2007, 149; translation modified). We are thirtysix minutes into the film and have just taken part in the telling of an event replete with the terror of war and watched as a lone soldier swims to safety under the threat of air raids. “I didn’t do enough,” he says. “I wasn’t the hero type who carries weapons and saves everyone’s life.” And after that, music, and the image of planes crashing, boys surfing. No obvious connection to the previous dark black-amber scene of the soldier’s almost-drowning, of the broken soldier who will never have done enough. Instead, blue-green water, gray-yellow sky and sand, plans being made for the massacre of Sabra and Shatila by commanders eating breakfast while talking on the phone, games of beach badminton being played in the distance. “I bombed Sidon today,” the music croons as bombs fall like stars from the sky and a soldier makes sunny-side-up eggs on a hot metal remnant of a bombed-out car. Half-naked men surf. “I almost went home in a coffin,” the music continues, the soldiers’ arms raised up in a dance of victory or renunciation as they run into the star-studded sky. And then, as quickly as it emerged, the music video fades back into the piecing together of forgetting, back to the voiceover and the impassive face. The surface moves again.