In two minutes, the metaphysical surface of the film has completely shifted. Everything has come undone. But this is not the film’s first undoing. The series of undoings that occur throughout the film keeps the circuit tight between affect and emotion, holding us to the now of experience in the making. These undoings are what keep us from taking the stance of the dispassionate observer, that keep us from falling into our selves. We watch-with, we feel-with the terror of a life fleeting, consumed, subsumed by the horrors of war. And so we become responsible before the event, in the face of it, in its incessant coming-to-act, as Deleuze would say. For what Waltz with Bashir has instantiated with its roving imagescape and its relentless sonorous continuum is emphatically not a responsibility for the event, as though the event could be captured and circumscribed.33 This is not to say that the coupling with fascisms in the making is not always there, at the ready, as are the risks of becoming responsible for, of taking a universalizing stance from beyond the event of a life’s unfolding. The spectre of the boy with his hands raised, the recall of Warsaw, looms large. A rigid segmentarity. But still the film resists, I believe, and it is this resistance that is most haunting.
The documentary footage barely lasts one minute, its blues and grays
pausing in the end on an image of orange, a dead girl’s body, before we are taken back to black screen of the animated film, back to the amber credits, back to the Schubert that has returned more than once, differently each time, activating the sonorous continuum of our experience in the watching. But before the credits, the screen remains black, a blackness that lasts an eternity of twelve seconds. We do not know where we stand.34 The ground trembles with the responsibility before life. We cannot comprehend the imagescape. It washes over us, black, a surface alive with the haunting sonorous continuum of a horror uncharted, a surfacing that now gives time for the re-creation of a circuiting back to each and every amber-gray-black image of the film. We are back, rising out of the water, walking into a city at dawn, terrified and deadened by the difference of repetition. We are back, rising out of the water, dressing on the edge of the sea, holding our hands up in the nightmare of Warsaw, lost in an image that refuses to situate us.