Phase 1 tends toward surface folds, layerings that are thin and sedimentlike, though the magnets’ inherent attraction to multiple stickings does create a complexity of folding that already tends toward volumetric bunching. Phase 2, Volumetrics (see figure 16), connects to Phase 1 but is based more specifically on the idea of volumes, generating foldings that are thick and bunched. Where Phase 1 plays with color, the fabrics chosen for their chromatic weaves, Phase 2 is black, the emphasis on textural subtleties. Another difference is that Volumetrics is not cut from preconceived patterns that, in their shape, already call forth garment-potential. Phase 2 is thought as a supplement to Phase 1 that thickens the sediment, building out from under its interweaving layers. Each piece of Volumetrics is more or less a rectangle, has multiple buttonholes through which elasticized string can be pulled to create shapes, folds and bunchings, toggles for adjustment of the strings, and magnets, snaps, and zippers. To play with Volumetrics, toggles are pulled or loosened along the elasticized string or gotten rid of altogether; zippers are opened or closed; snaps are multiply connected on a single piece of fabric or across pieces. In this fabric collection, the flatness of the body-surface is put into question, as is the idea that a garment layers directly on the human frame. The emphasis in Phase 2 is on the ontogenetic qualities of shaping: volumetrics is conceived as a machine for creating volumes. Slow Clothes and Volumetrics could be seen as choreographic objects for the exploration of what a body can do at the productive interval between dressing and architecting. To activate a mobile architecture depends on a series of enabling constraints. An enabling constraint is a setting in place of a series of conditions that foster a limiting of the field of experience even while they allow the incipient event to remain open to invention. Another name for structured improvisation, enabling constraints enable precision of technique in an open field of experimentation. Enabling constraints for mobile architectures include inventing techniques for collective alignments that evolve beyond pure movement habituation. These techniques can begin with an object but must find creative ways of transducing the object into a proposition for the collective individuation of a distributed relational movement. Once again, technique must become technicity.