More than in other Slow Clothes events—in Brazil, in Berlin, and in Montreal—these were participants for whom the cut of the cloth was already a familiar affordance for the creation of certain specific shapes—they saw shirts and dresses and pants in the making. Where earlier participants might not, upon seeing the pieces, immediately see how they could be transformed from their two-dimensional cut into a three-dimensional piece of clothing, this was a group for whom the textiles—their cuts, their qualities, the placing of the buttons, magnets, and hooks—carried meaning. The object itself was replete with information. The result: they moved through the fabric with a strong sense of technique. They knew, for instance, how to pair pieces, how to invent modes of fastening with the magnetic jewelry I had fashioned (composed of wires, magnets, and buttons). And so they turned to the composition with a strong sense of what the fabric proposition could do. Unlike earlier exhibitions, they also took more time with each piece of fabric, examining the constellations of buttons, admiring the finishing, discussing among themselves how a single cut could create more than one garment or could fashion the garment in more than one way. And then, in contemplative slowness, they began to invent, turning the magnetic jewelry into corsets for the creation of hanging fabric designs, playing with the forms the folds could take, pairing pieces of fabric to create complex garments. More than anywhere else the collection has toured, they experimented with how a body expresses itself in the dressing. They took literally the proposition that this is a textile collection for the dressing of all bodies, even bodies yet to be invented. And they made exquisite configurations. But they barely moved. They mostly worked in pairs, carefully designing, placing piece against piece, playing with color. They wanted to know what their garments looked like and they were extremely interested in the idea that someday this collection would be presented as a proposition for the making of actual pieces of clothing.14 They took Slow Clothes at its word, engaging in a slow dance of still-moving dressing bodies.