This is perhaps why, in step 10—Move into it, actually this time—despite the call to “actually move,” participants tend to prioritize a stilling (a quiet moving in place) rather than an actual displacement. It is as though with the volumetric shifting in the standing comes an infradimensionalizing of the very idea of ground that requires a new modality of attention, attentionwith, in the intensive stilling. Participants speak of a sense of a volumizing of dimension, a curving of spacetime, an opening of the field of “behindness” or “underneathness” that topples their sense of bodily integrity on the the horizontal-vertical axis. It is here that preacceleration’s interval in continuous modulation can be felt most strikingly: the infradimensionality of diagrams recalibrating is expressive of the multiplicity of intervals creating openings for the moving. What is felt: an uncanny intensity, vertigo, a resonance or vibration in the stilling, a multiplicity of movement potential. Preacceleration does not occur “in” space (as though space preexisted it): preacceleration feeds experience in the moving at the incipient edge where the before and between of movement coincide. In habitual movement, it is most often too fleeting to be felt. Since it is only tending toward the actual, we know it only in the moving, and even then, we cannot easily make sense of it “as such.” But in a focused diagrammatic praxis, especially in the moving across registers of space-timing, preacceleration can sometimes be passingly felt, and it is this feeling that most palpably makes apparent the inherent elasticity of spacetimes bodying that occurs in step 10. The procedure above is just one example of a diagrammatic praxis that serves to demonstrate the mobility of spacetime in experience. I focus on this to emphasize that all architectings of movement are activations of spacetime in the making, and that the activity of spacing we experience in the moving is an infralayer of the infinite potentiality of bodying, itself cocomposing in an environment of change.