What is the politics of “a” life? Chapter 3 of Always More Than One asks that question, with full cognizance of the complexity and sensitivity of reposing the question of the political in these terms, in connection with the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The risk of reformulating the question of politics in mutually inclusive terms is one that the philosophy the book develops cannot avoid. It is necessarily entailed by the logic it must deploy in order for its writing to be equal to the thinking of process. The force toward mutual exclusion exerted by the traditional-logic categories with which we are accustomed to using is perhaps at its strongest in political thinking. This can even be the case in political approaches dedicated to fighting exclusion, to the extent that they lend themselves to the exercise of moral judgment. What form of political judgment does “a” life imply, as a function of speciation, factoring in the continually varying and contingently variable “one” (-manyness) of the transcendental field of singular-generic events whose cresting from that field compose it? What might an ethics of the singular-generic involve, as against a morality of categorical judgment? For Manning, answering these questions effectively requires unstenciling the transcendental field of becoming of politics. It requires following in that field what outspans, overspills, and extends vitally-affectively beyond the backcast form of constituted groupings. It requires a thinking of group individuation, what Simondon (2005, 293–316) calls collective individuation, in terms specifically tailored to its constitutive movement. In order to accomplish this, Manning generates another topological twist. The transcendental field as earlier described as a middle that wraps around to self-surround flattens itself into a surface—a metaphysical surface doubling the surface of the screen upon which Waltz with Bashir, the film being analyzed, is projected, and from which the vitality affects its movement-images produce stand out. It is essential to remember that the way in which the problem of politics is posed by the project of Always More Than One requires a metaphysical response. Traditional political reasoning, and its habit of stenciling constituted distinctions onto the constitutive movement of their becoming, must be deferred, long enough for its categories to be refracted when they do return—as they inevitably will—through the conceptual force-field of a political metaphysics of becoming.