Prince in this encounter is not “the” human. She also is “a” singular-generic life. It would be reductive and insulting to specify her categorically as a “subspecies” of human: “the” autistic. She is no more “the” autistic than she is “the” human. She is “this” autistic human, only and exactly “how” she comes to that encounter: a primatologist-autist whose seriation of “a” lifemaking events have given her a unique talent for cofactoring with apes. No general ideas about humans and animals and interspecies relations are adequate to grasp the richness and inventiveness of the speciation that transpires between them. Two lives come into encounter across the species barrier of the fence in a zoo, bringing into play the thirdness of a joint event of speciation: “a” life co-composing. Assessing the politics and ethics of such encounters from a processual perspective respectful of how both participants and their coming-together burst with life-determination requires a retooling of the concepts with which we think the “nonhuman” and the variation of the human, and these in the same event: a “more than human” logic of life-making events, immanent to their occurring.
Significant portions of Always More Than One concern autism, following on from the final chapter of Relationscapes. To understand the role of the autistic, and the centrality of autism to the philosophy of the book, it is necessary once again to hold categorical judgment at bay. It must be borne in mind that in none of the sections in which it is a question of autism (chapters 1, 7, and 8 and interludes 4 and 5, in addition to the coda) is there a “the” autist. There is the autistic/writer, the autistic/drawer, the autistic/videographer, the autistic/neurodiversity activist, the autistic/facilitated communicator. These are not subspecies of “the” autist, any more than the autistic is a subspecies of “the” human. These are lives living on the “spectrum”: on a generic continuum of variation, ranges of which the conventional category carves out as pathological and in need of “curing.” These are lives determinedly living, each in its singularly variable way, on a generic continuum, including all of us.