Selection is always immanent to the event. Registers of expression and expressibility are key to the complexity of this process. Before the event concresces into its subjective form, it is alive in its felt potential but not yet determinate as this or that. At this stage of the process, the charge of potential (the preindividual) coursing through the individuation makes itself felt as the agitation of incipient expressibility. There is not yet expression. Only once the event stabilizes into this or that is there expression as such. This expression gives voice to the subtraction. Yet, as mentioned above, subtraction always carries a share of the more-than co-constituted in the comingto-act of the occasion. What autie-type demonstrates is that writing can attend to this incipient expressibility even as it begins to be overshadowed by the delimitations of expression. It does so by activating, in the writing, an affective tonality that opens language to the more-than of its expressibility. In autie-type, metaphor is key to this, but not metaphor as a linkage on the representational stratum13—metaphor as a mobility of relations in the making: “The choice of metaphoric vehicles is striking; notice how disparate the things compared are. One might be tempted to accuse this Autie of engaging in mixed metaphors, so quickly do the analogies, both implicit and explicit, come. But the point seems to be a world reconnected, a world included, on the level of sensory perception,” writes Ralph Savarese (forthcoming). The metaphors move relationality across strata of expressibility, less metaphors in the strict sense than mobile architectings of expressionmeets-expressibility: “Yes, the trees are rewarding to look at now. They partly shade the house I live in now. The kind looking tree plots to grow taller. Opening my dear self, I hear my mom call my name. It looks like the sun has moved to the front of the house as I plot my response. Resting hints freely that the green grass grows” (DJ Savarese qtd. in Savarese, forthcoming).
What courses through autie-type might be named prearticulation, the incipient more-than of expression. Like its movement-cousin preacceleration, prearticulation is about the virtual field of expressibility that precedes (or follows) expression as such. It is the feltness of language in the moving, before the saying, between the words. It can be gesture, rhythm, movement. It can be laughter, stuttering. It can be silence. From sensation to experience, from relation to perception, from feeling to writing, prearticulation makes felt how the more-than of expression—expressibility—accompanies
language in the making. Prearticulation does not express some thing, or some body, it expresses-with. The proposition: there is no language that does not carry its share of prearticulation.