The redness of Autistwork n2 makes the more-than of seeing felt. To do so,
it paradoxically assists in composing the work. It is what Whitehead would call an eternal object. To repeat: for Whitehead, to perceive this or that is to have cut or subtracted or foregrounded from the welter of potential. This process Whitehead calls prehension. An actual occasion is a prehension that delimits a field. It is short-lived, often active only for the smallest interval of time, before which it perishes and is replaced by a new set of delimited conditions for actual experience. The actual occasion itself will never evolve or change because how it came to be cannot be replicated. The conditions for subtraction from potential are infinite yet, in actuality, absolutely singular. An experience in the realm of the actual is therefore always absolutely what it is and has been. Eternal objects are the key to understanding the processuality of what here perhaps appears as a complete atomicity. Eternal objects make ingress into the actual, activating the more-than of its actuality—its virtual force. They are what give Whiteheadian metaphysics of the actual its potential. They are the force of relation that bleeds across all actuality, creating resonances—virtual linkages—between tendencies on the cusp of expressibility. The paradox is that for an experience to be known as such, there has to be a subtraction into actuality. Pure virtuality is pure indetermination. Eternal objects are a mechanism by which the actual becomes more-than, expressing its latent potentiality. Eternal objects are a reminder that all actuality is in fact activity—a coming-to-act. To paint a coming-to-act is to activate the fine line between the welter of a chaos infolding and the actualization of an image or a form. Redness plays this role in Ettinger’s Autistwork n2. It is the eternal object that activates the comingto-perception of the work at the same time as it is what keeps the painting from resolving once and for all.