Deligny writes, “And if, instead of teaching them to speak, we learned to hold our tongues?” (1975, 3).The muteness of autism touches on the ineffable in expressibility. It is more-than a silence, more-than a not-speaking. It is “the language we speak.” “To be silent . . . is not to stop talking [se taire], it is not a reaction; it is a posture, an attitude, a style of life, an ensemble of gestures that hold speech in abeyance” (Querrien 2006, 172). Deligny is suspicious of language: for Deligny, language is tied too closely to the institutionalization of the other. Language is too content to categorize, organize, close down, too intent on subsuming intensity to content: language “is the matrix of representation, the structure of our world and the root of this specific belief that we need a ‘me’ in order to exist” (Deligny qtd. in Han 2006, 188).12
But is there not another way of conceiving language? As autie-type demonstrates, in the force of expressibility where the shape of enthusiasm lingers—“in the language we speak”—lives a certain muteness that is the prearticulation of language in-forming. Prearticulation’s activation contour is the how of language’s movement-with that shapes not necessarily words as such but the force of their incipient expressibility. Language, autie-type demonstrates, can also be active in lines of drift that move in a worlding that persists “between the words.” Poetry has long done this, exposing language to the more-than of its content, activating the incipient expressibility within expression. Jim Sinclair’s poem leads the way here, reminding us that poetry can be a voice for “the language we speak,” that poetry’s techniques of rhythm and repetition give us a taste of what lurks between the words and across the lines. Deligny also seems to have an intuition that takes him in this direction, for he makes a place for his own poetic voice to be heard beside (between?) the tracings,13 activating the traces with words written in a rhythm that co-composes with the drifting lines. This opens writing itself to a drift that reorients the territory, that composes across the “we” of “this is the language we speak” and “we, the normopaths.” For Deligny’s is a composing-with where the “we” is continuously replaced by the more-than of the iteration, the not-quite sayable of its ineffability where “we” are not-yet.