Counterpoint * Recall Forsythe’s definition of counterpoint: “a field of action in which the intermittent and irregular coincidence of attributes between organizational elements produces an ordered interplay.”1 This definition of counterpoint emphasizes the relationship between movement and time. Forsythe speaks of choreographing the future in the present-moving, asking his dancers to “dance where the other dancer is going” to “meet him there.”2 Dancing in an alignment with futures in the making suggests a structured improvisation that is attuned to the incipient more-than of movement—movement’s technicity. To move into the technicity of movement is not to mimic or predict: there is no standing back from the eventin-the-moving. It is to move-with the movement’s excess of position. It is to craft movement-moving in the more-than of movement’s taking-form. This happens in counterpoint as dancers “shift each other’s time.” Forsythe explains: “syncing is not what’s important, in the sense of matching an already known timing.” Move in the timeframes of the becoming-movement, preaccelerate into the relational field activated by movement-moving, move with the affective tonality, with future time presenting: “This can operate in different timeframes: go slower, be in another’s past right before they catch up to you, then move past them to their future—look for the moment—aim at it rather than going directly to it.”3 Counterpoint is not the activity of an individual body—it is the activity of a relational field through which movement moves. Movement-moving is intensively distributed— always beyond its simple location, as Whitehead would say.4 In counterpoint, the movement exceeds the frame—the frame of time, the frame of the skin-envelope—activating an inframobility that tunes to a relational movement. As collective movement becomes attuned to this relational field, time folds, individual movements no longer abstractable from the whole. One movement-moving, in difference. Counterpoint.