Back to the fence and to the art of play: “We consider that an animal, in a complex and accidental milieu, would have few chances of survival if he could only use stereotyped behaviour, even if more or less corrected by orienting stimuli. Much more important are the improvised responses directed to the stimuli . . . that act as a sort of irritant, not as a signal” (Ruyer 1958, 149; my translation). Animals play, and play is an art, as Brian Massumi (2011c) underlines, precisely because instinct, conceived as artless, is “downright maladaptive”—its stereotyping forbids a response tailored to the singularity of the situation. Following Ruyer, Massumi suggests that, at play, a processual trigger spurs a creative advance, an “immanent modification. . . . The stimulus irritates, it provokes, it is a processual inducer. What it most directly induces is an integral modification of the tendencial self-consistency of the animal experience, correlated to the externality of the accident but obeying its own logic of qualitative variation.” Instinct, as Bergson writes, is played more than it is represented (Bergson 1988, 180).9 It is too simplistic, then, to suggest that what moves Kanzi, or what moves Prince, is simply behavior predating the event, such as instinct tied to gender or species categories. They are not imitating or responding to something that predefines them—they are creating play. Gorilla-like is an art. No gorilla has actually entered the scene.What has entered is a movementconstellation that has taken both Prince and Kanzi by surprise. Gorilla-like is the more-than of their coming-together, the style, the mode of existence, the motif of the event’s counterpoint. And although it is spoken in the language of the third—the sign language “of ” the gorilla—it erupts in the language of counterpoint, the language of movement’s possession by itself. The movement moves the gorilla-like speciation of which Kanzi and Prince (in a million variations) are part. Paw-earth, foot-air, laughter-dirt, gruntmetal, all of these speciations are at work in dancing the emergent counterpoint. A speciation: a bloc of sensation, as Deleuze and Guattari might say. A desiring machine. “Deleuze and Guattari have a favorite word to designate the affective force that pulls deformationally forward toward creativity: desire” (Massumi 2011c, 73). Desire as a transformational pull that activates
a relational field.