1 As Marc Lafrance points out, Bick is critical in this instance of Melanie Klein’s suggestion that all infants are capable of introjection and projection. In the psychoanalytic literature, these are considered to be defense mechanisms. Introjection refers “to an unconscious process of incorporating the attitudes or attributes of an absent person—such as a father or a mother—into the self. Through this process of incorporation, the self is able to feel closer to he or she who is absent and, as a result, its anxiety is arrested. . . . Projection refers to an unconscious process of expelling the self’s undesirable thoughts and feelings into someone else. Through the process of expulsion, the self is able to get rid of that which it cannot bear about itself and, as a result, its anxiety is allayed” (Lafrance 2009, 20n5).
A more nuanced reading of psychoanalysis, and especially object relations, could have been done in this chapter to more clearly differentiate Bick’s position from that of Klein and to explore variants that are less dogmatic about the skin-as-envelope (see, for instance, Ettinger 1999). My point, however, is less to critique psychoanalysis than to propose a different perspective on the body and on affective processes.
2 Lafrance writes, “According to Bick, the infant’s sense of being held together by the skin does not occur automatically. This sense must be achieved, and it can only be achieved if the infant’s body is stimulated in a way that gives rise to an enduring experience of epidermal envelopment. If all goes well and the infant is provided with regular and reliable experiences of skin-to-skin contact with its caregiver, then it will over time be able to internalize—or, as Kleinians like Bick put it, introject—the experience of the skin as a container” (2009, 8).
3 Bick describes second skins as formations “through which dependence on the
[containing] object is replaced by a pseudo-independence, by the inappropriate use of certain mental functions, or perhaps innate talents, for the purpose of creating a substitute for this skin container function” (1987, 115).
4 Throughout, “feeling” is used in the Whiteheadian sense and is allied to affect (and affective tonality) more than to emotion. For Whitehead, feeling is never a secondary experience. The world is made of feeling. This will be discussed more thoroughly in chapter 2.
5 Lafrance writes: “For Esther Bick, the experience of the skin as a binding and limiting membrane must be achieved, and that this achievement is vitally enabled by contact with the binding and limiting membrane of a caregiver. Once this experience has been achieved, the infant will gradually begin to make sense of itself as a being with insides and outsides and, as a result, will gradually begin to introject and project” (2009, 8). Lafrance further explains that this differentiation between inside and outside “must be learned through embodied engagements with a caregiving other,” providing the psychoanalytic example of the child’s relation with the nipple: “The concept of a space inside that holds the parts that make up his “self” is developed through sensing the mouth, a hole in the boundary of the skin, being closed with the arrival of the nipple. This space inside is thus felt as one into which the object can be introjected” (Lafrance qtd. in Briggs 2002, 10).
6 See James 1996. The concept of relation as used throughout this book is developed in more detail in Relationscapes (Manning 2009).
7 In Relationscapes, I suggest that the interval is the metastable quality through which the relation is felt. For a more detailed exploration of the interval in relation to movement, see “Incipient Action: The Dance of the Not-Yet” in Relationscapes (Manning 2009).
8 For a development of the concept of reaching-toward in relation to a politics of touch, see Politics of Touch (Manning 2007).
9 In Politics of Touch (Manning 2007) I argue that sensing is always imbricated in the activity of reaching-toward, an activity that is never restrained to a single body or self, but that takes place in a complex relational field of its own making.
10 The virtual here is not opposed to the real. It is always an integral aspect of the actual, if inexpressible and inexperiencable as such.
11 Simondon writes: “We would like to show that the principle of individuation is not an isolated reality turned in on itself, preexisting the individual as an already individualized germ of the individual. The principle of individuation, in the strict sense of the term, is the complete system in which the genesis of the individual takes effect. And that, in addition, this system prolongs itself in the living individual, in the form of an associated milieu of the individual, in which individuation continues to evolve; that life is thus a perpetual individuation, a continuing individuation across time that prolongs a singularity” (1995, 63).
12 Psychoanalytic theory’s desire to limit behavior to distinct phases suggests, as
Stern notes, that processes are not explored ontogenetically (at the level of their emergence) but ontologically (in their matrix of being or having become). Stern asks: “what about the process itself—the very experience of making the leaps and creating relations or consolidating sensorimotor schemas. Can the infant experience not only the sense of an organization already formed and grasped, but the coming-into-being of organization?” (1985, 45). Stern’s criticism of psychoanalytic theory is that it does not tend to explore the processual complexities of development/emergence as a fractal phase-space that contains interweaving strata. “The traditional notions of clinical theorists have taken the observer’s knowledge of infants—that is, relative undifferentiation compared with the differentiated view of older children—reified it, and given it back, or attributed it, to infants as their own dominant subjective sense of things” (1985, 46).
13 Following the philosophical lineage of thinkers such  as  Alfred  North Whitehead, Gilles Deleuze, and Félix Guattari, an actual occasion or event is conceived throughout as that through which experience coalesces into actuality. I take the liberty to align event and occasion despite the fact that some readings of Whitehead see the occasion rather as a micro-event. In my reading of Whitehead, occasions are not classified according to scale. An occasion is always an event in its own right. This usage conforms to Whitehead’s own in Science and the Modern World (1925) and Modes of Thought (1938). See also Deleuze 1992; Massumi 2011b.
14 I define preacceleration as the felt experience of the not-yet in the moving, particularly noticeable in the beginning of a displacement. For a more detailed reading of the concept, see “Incipient Action: The Dance of the Not-Yet” in Manning 2009.
15 Ogden makes the assumption here that autism is directly associated with a lack of empathy. This notion that autistics cannot establish relations is allied to the concept of mindblindness (Baron-Cohen 1995), a view that I believe is completely unwarranted. I discuss this in detail in chapter 7. Suffice it to say for now that this view presupposes that autism involves the impossibility of sensing the acuteness of the world in its activity, human and nonhuman, a view that has been challenged by many autistics and writers on autism. In discussing his autistic son, for instance, Ralph Savarese talks of DJ being a “seismograph” who feels every aspect of his environment so fully that it deeply affects how he interacts in the world. See Savarese 2007 and Ogden 1989.
16 To view Amanda Baggs’s video, In My Language, visit http://www.youtube.com/ watch?v=JnylM1hI2jc.
17 See, for instance, Baron-Cohen 1995; Baron-Cohen and Wheelwright 2004; Charman et al., Simon Baron-Cohen, John Swettenham, Anthony Cox, Gillian Baird, Auriol Drew “Infants with Autism: An Investigation of Empathy, Pretend Play, Joint Attention and Imitation” in Developmental Psychology 33, no. 5 (1997): 781–89. For a more complex reading of empathy in relation to autism, see R. J. Blair, “Responding to the Emotions of Others: Dissociating Forms of Empathy through the Study of Typical and Psychiatric Populations,” at http://www18
.homepage.villanova.edu/diego.fernandezduque/Teaching/PSY8900_CogNeuro psych/9_ToM/BlairEmpathy.pdf. In this piece, Blair differentiates between different kinds of empathy, making the point that “motor empathy is likely to be impaired in autism” (9) and questioning the claim that “there is any evidence of impairment for emotional empathy” (10). By motor emphathy, Blair is directing his attention to the fact that many autistics are not capable of using their voices or bodies in a way that clearly demonstrates what they are feeling. Sue Rubin, for instance, talks about how her echolalia often gets in the way of what she really means to say. The example she gives is of a visitor ringing her doorbell and her greeting the visitor with an emphatic “go away” when she is actually happy to see them. She speaks of feeling taken over by the echolalia. Within the autistic spectrum I am calling “classical” here, there also tends to be a lot of difficulty with activation (making a decision about an action and immediately following through with it). I have written more extensively about motor activation issues in the context of a Parkinsons-like condition called Encephalitis Lethargica in a chapter entitled “Touch as Technique” in Relationscapes (Manning 2009). Motor activation issues make it difficult to operate on a neurotypical time-line. Anticipated sequences of events such as extending the arm to reach for a pencil or a keyboard to communicate are often severely impeded, which can give the neurotypical the impression that the autistic does not want to respond, with the undesired effect that he or she will either ignore them or speak for them. “Freezing” also happens regularly for some autistics, making it difficult for them to reactivate themselves without assistance. All of these issues can also have important social consequences. Tito Mukhopadhyay (n.d.) explains: “There is the social pressure of performing those social gestures—like organizing the muscles of the face and beam out a social smile of acknowledgment to a face that is waiting with expectation, ready to get hurt or disappointed when the smile fails to happen. It does fail to happen with my face under that pressure. This ‘not being able to smile socially’ is not a universal fact. For I do not represent the whole Autism community. I have seen many people with Autism smile impartially at friends and strangers, happy faces and sad faces. But I don’t because I can’t.” Activation issues surrounding motor impairment are often the reason classical autistics are assumed to be unintelligent or “low-functioning.” This is of course completely false.
18 In a weblog-based dispute with well-known “high-functioning” autistic Temple Grandin, Amanda Baggs takes umbrage at Grandin’s categorical separation of so-called low-functioning autistics from high-functioning autistics. Grandin writes: “I would think in an ideal world, you don’t want to have people who can’t talk, but on the other hand, you definitely don’t want to get rid of all of the autism genetics because if you did that, there’d be no scientists. After all, who do you think made the first stone spear back in the caves? It wasn’t the really social
people. . . . A little bit of the autism trait provides advantages but too much creates a low-functioning individual who cannot live independently. The paradox is that milder forms of autism and Asperger’s are part of human diversity but severe autism is a great disability. There is no black-and-white dividing line between an eccentric brilliant scientist and Asperger’s. . . . In an ideal world the scientist should find a method to prevent the most severe forms of autism but allow the milder forms to survive.” See this interview at http://www.wrongplanet.net/ asperger.html?name=News&file=article&sid=295. Amanda Baggs responds: “Note that I think the division between low-functioning and high-functioning is completely artificial. I do not regard myself as either one because I do not think it is possible to divide up autism that way. I do not think there is a straight continuum from Asperger’s to ‘full-blown autistic.’ I think that there are too many aspects of autism, that can be different in each person, for it to be possible to just draw a neat line as if autism is one trait that varies in ‘severity.’ I say this because sometimes people get the impression that I consider myself lowfunctioning. I don’t. I don’t consider myself high-functioning either” (see the post “Temple Grandin, displaying near-textbook ‘hfa/as elitism,’” at http:// ballastexistenz.wordpress.com/http://ballastexistenz.wordpress.com/?p=27). Note also Melanie Yergeau’s comment on the category: “If one can speak but can’t work, can cook but can’t drive, can read existential philosophy but can’t add single digits, can hug on demand but can’t stop a head-banging binge, can mimic small-talk but can’t modulate the volume of her voice, can pass in short bursts but can’t refrain from hand-flapping, is she high-functioning?” (2010).
19 For stimulating and incisive reading on neurodiversity, disability politics, and writing, see Melanie Yergeau (2009, 2010; Yergeau and Duffy 2011). In her 2010 essay titled “Circle Wars: Reshaping the Typical Autism Essay,” she writes, “Of course, this is what the typical autism essay leads us to believe: the genre—and the authors who have painstakingly constructed this genre, a genre that is rife with painful history—has constructed autism just as neurological difference— which it is—yet fails to account for the social construction of neurological difference—which it also is—instead lumping the difference circle with that of deviance” (Yergeau 2010).
20 See Amanda Baggs’s post from November 20, 2010, titled “Doing Things Differently,”  http://ballastexistenz.wordpress.com/.
21 See Langer 1977.
22 For a more detailed exploration of landing sites, see Arakawa and Gins 2002.