The first epigraph for this chapter is from Whitehead 1938 (188). The second epigraph is composed of statements made by MM and Daina Krumins in Miller 2003.
1 Amanda Baggs writes: “If we were real people, killing us would be bad, and killing ourselves would be unfortunate rather than something people build special laws to enable. / If we were real people, the world would be designed in a way that
allowed us to move through it without extra obstacles thrown in our way. / If we were real people, people would see us as individuals, rather than heroes, tragedies, inspirations, or representatives of our entire impairment group. / If we were real people, then giving us proper medical care would never be seen as pointless. / If we were real people, the whole myriad range of disability stereotypes would look flimsy and silly because people would see us as we are. / Of course we’re already real people. But the problem is that so few people have noticed” (March 24, 2010, http://ballastexistenz.wordpress.com/).
2 As will no doubt be clear by now, autistics are extremely complex people who reorient the very idea of “function” as a basis for experience. As Melanie Yergeau writes, “When others denote me as a high-functioning autistic, there’s still an assumption that I’m malfunctioning, because no matter how ‘high’ I am on the grid, I’m never just plain functioning” (2010). I bring up the terminology of “low functioning” simply to note that the bias of “function” is still very much alive in our culture and that these remarkable thinkers do face complex disabilities ranging from the inability of self-activation to issues of inhibition associated with involuntary movements, the inability to speak, and so on. Autistics who are placed in the “low-functioning” category generally do need daily assistance for many tasks and can rarely live completely on their own. The categories of autism are perhaps most useful for the determination of specific care situations and for access to medical funding and education (including an aide in the classroom, for instance). But when the categorization becomes fixed as a point of identity, dangerous assumptions are made that restratify the field of neurodiversity. Baggs writes: “When I write long things, that is not a statement that I am ‘high functioning.’ When I appear somewhere, that is not a statement that I am ‘low functioning’ (in fact, my appearance is not a claim of anything—it’s just my appearance, it’s like calling my hair color a claim to anything in particular). If you make an assumption based on one ability or another, about my other abilities, you will be wrong” (“If we were real people,” January 24, 2009, http://ballastexistenz
.wordpress.com/). I prefer to use the term “classical autistic,” as Ralph Savarese does. For an excellent expository article on autism with a particular emphasis on movement differences, see Donnellan, Hill and Leary 2010.
3 Amanda Baggs, “If we were real people,” March 24, 2010, http://ballastexistenz
.wordpress.com/.
4 Tito Mukhopadhyay writes: “Sometimes I had to knock my head or slap it to feel it. Of course from my knowledge of biology I knew that I had voluntary muscles and involuntary muscles. I also knew that my hands and legs were made of voluntary muscles. But I experimented with myself that when I ordered my hand to pick up a pencil I could not do it. I remember long back when I had ordered my lips to move I could not do it” (2002, 73).
5 Mukhopadhyay continues: “If I am asked to close my eyes and pick potatoes from a mixture of potatoes and onions, I would not be able to do so because my sense
of touch is poor. So I do not mind people hugging me like Tom, who is tactile sensitive. My tactile sensitivity is limited to textures of fabric. I do not like wool” (qtd. in Iversen 2006, 70).
6 Amanda Baggs, “The Summer Thing,” February 20, 2010, http://ballastexistenz
.wordpress.com/.
7 In his forthcoming book, A Dispute with Nouns—Autism, Poetry, and the Sensing Body, Ralph Savarese writes: “‘Autie’ is a term that some people with autism use to refer to themselves; ‘Autie-type,’ a highly poetic language that many nonspeaking Auties produce spontaneously on their letter boards or computers.” In her book, Between Their World and Ours: Breakthroughs with Autistic Children, Karen Zelan asks, “Why do Autistics use language the way they do? Many of their utterances seem essentially poetic” (2004, 48). No one has yet adequately accounted for this singular use of rhythm. Perhaps I should say that no one has yet wanted to account for it, as many in the scientific community continue to cling to outdated notions of mindblindness, which imagine that classical autistics have no awareness of self or others. Without such awareness, of course, poetry is impossible.
8 Much has been written on facilitated communication, a method used by many autistics to assist them first in pointing, then in typing on a computer, an Augmented and Alternative Communication Device, or an iPad. Ralph Savarese (2007) provides an excellent introduction to the technique and to the controversy that surrounds it. See also Biklen 1997; Erevelles 2005; Kliewer, Biklen, and Kasa-Hendrickson 2006; Kasa-Hendrickson, Broderick, and Hanson 2009. Each of the autistics mentioned here types with little or no direct typing assistance, though they tend to require assistance in the triggering of an activity—and this evolves with time. Jamie Burke, for instance, has recently become capable of reading his writing aloud, and DJ Savarese is capable of typing several sentences at a time with little or no direct facilitation. Tito Mukhopadhyay writes on his own with a pencil and types with no facilitation except having his mother in the room. Larry Bissonnette can read his writing and types with a facilitator’s hand on his shoulder or simply touching his shirt. Amanda Baggs
types without facilitation.
What all of these autistics share are activation issues, some connected specifically to writing and some connected more generally to everyday life. In the case of Amanda Baggs, for instance, writing is not something for which she requires assistance, but her body does freeze and in these cases, humans or cats are often needed to reactivate her (she speaks of her cat’s sensitivity to her “freezing,” as a result of which the cat—Fey—has taken it upon herself to walk over her body to trigger activity). In Tito Mukhopadhyay’s case, activation might be needed to focus him on a task. His mother and facilitator, Soma Mukhopadhyay, has developed a method called rapid prompting that includes triggerings. These can take the form of a tap on the knee or shoulder but more often rely
on words of encouragement. In DJ Savarese’s case, he and his aide sometimes share a pencil that is held throughout the typing process. Because of the proximity of the assistant to the keyboard, in testing situations he has had to demonstrate that he is indeed typing his own words. Each of these demonstrations has shown that it is DJ writing and not the aide. Ralph Savarese calls facilitation “arm time” and defines it as an “intimate explosion into communicative sociality through a physical interconnectedness” (2007, 339). This is how DJ Savarese describes facilitated communication: “The first question people freshly asked was why I sometimes have someone hold the pencil while I type or write. The answer is that the person fearlessly makes me feel safe by helping me regulate my nervous system. The adult helps me not to greet the kids directly. If I greet them directly, I get over-stimulated, and my feelings grow so strong that holding them inside is impossible. I desert reason, and my body repeatedly begins to flap or reach freshly toward them. I love greeting kids, but it can cause me to desert selfcontrol temporarily. Another reason why I use a facilitator is to help me focus. The Frees [speaking people without autism] who understand me know how to hear my dear self. They greet my dear self and free me to respond. Treating me as free, they tell me what to do until my breathing feels deep and slow, and my fingers and eyes can once again communicate with each other, so I can type my thoughts. Years of inhaling voluntarily greet hope that I can regulate my own sensory input and hold myself in control. When I was only able to exhale voluntarily, I had to rely completely on my mom to help me fold up my fear and relax. This was frustrating and fearful for everyone, including me” (in special issue of disability studies quarterly on autism, Savarese 2010).
9 At the autcoM conference I discuss in “Fiery, Luminous, Scary” (Milwaukee, 2010, http://www.autcom.org/conf2010/AUTCOM-2010-program.pdf ) I was struck by the proliferation among the autistics represented there of poetic writing, much of which was “identifiable” as “autie-type”—intensely rhythmical, metaphorical, creative. There was also a keen tendency for irony. This was particularly apparent in a panel titled “Rated ‘R’: That Oh-So-Difficult Topic,” hosted by classical autistics Jacob Pratt and Nick Pentzell, both of whom used forms of facilitation to communicate (for the conference talk, their writing was read aloud by facilitators or family). In the description of their panel they wrote: “We’ve watched Casablanca 17 times, and we know about the birds and the bees, but—uh—love and s-e-x weren’t taught as social skills or as Pt, ot, or sensory integration. . . . How do we go about having mature relationships? And how in the world do we integrate support staff ??” While the subject of the panel and the way it was dealt with was both extraordinarily touching and hilarious, what struck me was the exquisiteness of the writing—its perspicacious precision, its rhythm, its humor. There was definite delight in the writing itself even in a context as unusual as “where do I put my facilitator when I am having sex, and do I pull them out from under the bed if I need to say something?”
10 DJ Savarese’s writings are available at http://www.reasonable-people.com/writ ings.html.
11 Keynote address by Larry Bissonnette at the Institute on Communication and Inclusion, Mit Media Labs, July 20–22, 2011.
12 See a lovely piece written by the poet and writer Steve Kuusisto on the occasion of DJ’s graduation from high school, http://www.planet-of-the-blind.com/2011/02/ dj-savarese-my-friend-our-ally-in-disability-rights.html.
13 Deleuze and Guattari are famous for their critique of metaphor. In Deleuze’s preface to Difference and Repetition, he writes: “We tend to subordinate difference to identity in order to think it (from the point of view of the concept or the subject: for example, specific difference presupposes an identical concept in the form of a genus.) We also have a tendency to subordinate it to resemblance (from the point of view of perception), to opposition (from the point of view of predicates), and to analogy (from the point of view of judgement). In other words, we do not think difference in itself” (1994, xv). With Ralph Savarese, I would argue that Deleuze and Guattari’s emphasis on the need for a politics of difference is activated in the metaphors—or mobile architectings—used by the autistics mentioned above. In their work, metaphor activates a mobility of relations rather than simply being a representation of preexisting concepts.
14 Amanda Baggs, “The Fireworks Are Interesting,” March 5, 2010, http://ballast existenz.wordpress.com/. In an email correspondence, Baggs explains: “When I talk about not matching words to thoughts I mean that when I learned to speak I didn’t understand a single word, or even what language is for. (Which is already outside most people’s experiences because babies understand language before they produce it.) What I had was the ability to look at patterns: ‘When someone makes this set of sounds, someone else makes that set of sounds.’ Over time I developed a complex system of working such things out. By the time I began to understand at least some language, I already had a long time of using words as the solution to a puzzle. Meaning seeped into what I heard over time, and some of what I said corresponded to what I thought, but most of it was still memorized puzzle solutions. . . . Something that helped with poetry though, I think, is that even if words were not much mapped to thoughts, words were somewhat connected to situations. Not in a purely descriptive form. But like noticing the pattern that certain strings of words corresponded well to certain situations. So a lot of what poetry allowed me to do was put those strings of words together.”
15 For autistics who use facilitated communication, communication can only happen when someone is present to facilitate. Because of the severe activation issues, the facilitator is not only there to touch the autistic or hold their hand or elbow but also to sense when they would like to speak.
16 In the film Wretches and Jabberers (Gerardine Wurzburg, 2011), which tracks Larry Bissonnette and Tracy Tresher on their “global quest to change attitudes about disability and intelligence,” it is fascinating how the lyrical rhythm I have come
to admire and recognize in the writings of those I mention here (DJ Savarese, Tito Mukhopadhyay, and others) is shared by their autistic counterparts in India, Japan, and Finland. This should be enough to convince the detractors of facilitated communication that autistics speak in their own voices.
17 This is not the case with Jamie Burke and Tito Mukhopadhyay, both of whom were already working with typing and writing when they were four. Larry Bissonnette, on the other hand, only learned to express himself by typing in his late forties (though he was a prolific artist long before then). There is therefore clearly a range, but what seems to be the case is that most autistics become capable of expressing themselves in language later than neurotypicals. This can and often does create an unusual relationship to language, which seems to “come all at once” when it does despite the fact that often the autistics speak of not having been able to really understand language beforehand.
18 Sue Rubin, quoted in Autism Is a World, a documentary film written by Sue Rubin, produced and directed by Gerardine Wurzburg, and  coproduced  by  the  cnn cable  network.
Throughout this chapter, I use “emergence” as the coming-into-expression of difference, very much in opposition to the notion of “coming back” that will be highlighted later on regarding children “returning to the world” through language acquisition. Emergence, a keystone concept in process philosophy, connotes the coming into being of an occasion of experience.
19 During a typed interview at an autism conference, an unnamed nineor ten-yearold boy was asked: “Describe one or two things that people can do to help you.” He responded: “They can have utter respect for diversity, and they can understand that diversity leads a tattered life when not wedded to tolerance.” This interview was initially posted on Autism Diva’s blog http://autismdiva.blogspot.com/ and reposted on Amanda Baggs’ blog at http://ballastexistenz.wordpress.com/.
20 It is typical of autistics to experience various degrees of discomfort looking at people’s eyes, though the severity of this discomfort varies (I have often had eye contact with DJ Savarese, for instance, but not when speaking to him). This has to do with the sensory overload that the face and eye-contact, in particular, provoke. For some, this is compounded by a degree of face-blindness, or prosopagnosia, a condition that impedes the recognition of people by their faces. Tito Mukhopadhyay writes: “Every face becomes a combination of eyes, nose, mouth and other parts. Yet the lengths and sizes of these parts differ from person to person. Now, can you imagine what a big confusion it will be if I started linking facial parts, with every detail, each one having a different expression, a worried look or a smiling look or a sad look or a puzzled look? How many links I should require to recognize Portia smiling at me? Can you imagine the strain?” (qtd. in Iversen 2006, 80). In a piece entitled “Coming of Age,” Susan Golubock writes: “When I looked at a person’s face, the light reflecting off it made it painful. . . . To look at their face as a whole made me dizzy. The body and facial movements
were too much for me to process. . . . The extra effort plus the added visual input were distracting, so my understanding of what they were saying dropped even more” (qtd. in Miller 2003, 151).
Amanda Baggs, with her usual panache, describes being forced to look into someone’s eyes this way: “Okay . . . he’s got to. . . . EyEBalls EyEBalls EyEBalls he’s got to be unaware . . . EyEBalls EyEBalls EyEBalls is he saying something? EyEBalls EyEBalls am I trying to type something? EyEBalls EyEBalls EyEBalls EyEBalls EyEBalls . . . what’s he saying? [shading eyes as if staring at sun] EyEBalls EyEBalls EyEBalls am I saying something? EyEBalls EyEBalls EyEBalls EyEBalls EyEBalls EyEBalls what’s going on?” (May 19, 2010, http://ballastexistenz.wordpress.com/). Shutdown ensues.
21 Chapter 1 deals with this video. I also discuss it in detail in the concluding chapter, “Thought in Motion,” in Relationscapes (2009).
22 Baggs, In My Language, http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JnylM1hI2jc.
23 Many children seem to show signs of autism around age two, and, in some cases, there can be a regression of language acquisition as well as fine motor skills.
24 As mentioned in an earlier note, while in literature on autism this is often called “emergence,” I would firmly situate emergence within the conceptual realm of worlding and place “coming back” within the modality of a return to the perceived norm.
25 Amanda Baggs describes how her poems “write themselves” almost despite language: “They would sort of write themselves. And then I would have to go and look up the words because I didn’t know the meaning. And then the meaning would fit. Other times I wouldn’t be sure of a word in the same way as a misheard song lyric. I guess that’s sort of normal if you learned to spit out combinations of words before you learned what words were . . . but it’s still strange when that happens so blatantly sometimes” (email correspondence, April 18, 2010).
26 This urgency is palpable not only in DJ Savarese’s own writings but also in his desire to assist others in coming to expression through language. He writes: “In the future I hope to encourage students who don’t speak to free themselves through writing” (http://www.reasonable-people.com/writings.html). For Tito Mukhopadhyay, the urgency expresses itself in his focus on publishing. At an autism conference for which he was a keynote speaker (during his first visit to the United States), this is how he responded to the questions about his needs for the future: “A scientist in the back asked: ‘For those of us who are researchers, Tito, what can we do for you?’ Without hesitation, Tito pounded out: ‘I need an artificial voice.’ And when another asked: ‘What are your hopes for the future?’ ‘Get me a publisher,’ was Tito’s reply” (qtd. in Iversen 2006, 48).
27 The poem continues: “Solitude an empty circle / Unassuming, filled with light / Here I linger at the center / Wait untouched by outside worlds / Still and silent solitary / Never moves but ever shines” (Amanda Baggs, unpublished).
28 This creates what is often called a “writerly” text. When writing creates-with the fragility of the emergence of thought, it beckons the reader to return again and again to the text not simply to return to the content but to experience it in its serial emergence.
29 Baggs, “The Fireworks Are Interesting.”
30 Ibid.