interlude: Love the Anonymous Elements
The title of this interlude is a quotation from Ettinger 1993.
1 A color version of this figure is available at
2 Generalizations are of course always dangerous, and it is not my intention to subsume all autistic perception to a few main traits. Instead, what I am proposing are limit concepts of autistic and neurotypical perception, both of which I believe function on a spectrum. Donna Williams describes what might be called “autistic perception” this way: “Perhaps the feeling comes from a time before words, before thought, before interpretation, before competition, before reliance on the conscious mind and before identity, in a time when all new experiences are equal in their worth and there is, as yet, no discrimination and no established sense of boundaries or hierarchy. This is a time when, without boundaries or restriction, one is ‘the whole world’ and everything experienced of that world is an indistinguishable and resonant part of one’s self with no need to explore it as a separate entity” (1998, 12).
3 Donna Williams writes: “Most people perceive objects beyond their grainy, sheeny, reflective, flowing, coloured or  opaque appearances, beyond their smooth, raspy, cold, textured tactile experience, beyond the sounds of their chinking, thud-thud, tap-tap surfaces when impacted upon, their sweet, or savoury or chemical tastes or smells, their flexibility, solidness or bounce when bitten into or impacted upon. Most people experience the object before the art of it” (1998, 14).
4 Neurotypical perception is a continuum, with tendencies closer to what I am calling autistic perception in the realms of art, under the influence of drugs or alcohol, or in the keen perceptual awareness of new love, to name a few states that might privilege a more processual experience of the world in-forming. I agree with Donna Williams that it is likely that all newborns experience what might be called “pure perception”—the state of rich undifferentiation that could be thought of as an ecological withness of existence—but are trained out of it by a system that, in most cultures, privileges categorization. Williams writes: “As people grow up, there’s a huge pressure not to sense but to use ‘common sense,’ which is to use a system of interpretation” (1998, 34). The point is not to draw a strict differentiation between neurotypical and autistic perception but to emphasize certain aspects of perception that are foregrounded in autistic perception and most often backgrounded in neurotypical perception.