From 2012-2014, Inflexions has published two in-series issues, one out of series issue, and has initiated second set of in-series and out of series issues to be published in 2015.
In summer 2013, Inflexions published Into the Midst, the Senselab’s first experiment in our new 'out of series' journal issues. Authorship within these issues was treated as a collective experience, and contributions to an issue engaged by the design as a chorus. The design of this particular issue is a collaboration between Erin Manning and Leslie Plumb. 
This issue consists of responses from the Senselab Collective and participants of the Into the Midst event that occurred in October of 2012. Into the Midst was a five-day collaborative research-creation workshop in and around the SATosphere, the Society for Art and Technology's interactive immersive projection environment (aka 'The Dome'). These responses are designed in a way where they interact with one another in an experimental web format that reconfigures the positionality of the texts in conjunction with user navigation through the site. The issue can be accessed at the URL: http://www.inflexions.org/intothemidst.html. The texts are interlaced with images from the Senselab’s work in and around the SAT. There were 26 different people whose writing went into the production this issue.
In the Spring of 2013, the Senselab published a special issue on experimental architects and contemporary artists Arakawa and Gins in Inflexions 6. In this issue emerging scholars and established authors explore the historical, performative and ethical aspects of Arakawa and Gins' work and, each from their unique personal, academic or practical experiences, discuss how Arakawa and Gins may guide us to live life on new terms. This issue parted from our standard Inflexions format as it included a Keynotes and a Tribute section. The keynote texts offer insight into the way that Arakawa and Gins' work informs positions within and across a range of research areas in an effort assist anyone embarking on daily research.  The tributes are in honour to Arakawa (who died on May 18, 2010) to recognize the significance of his work by offering personal accounts and speculations upon where Arakawa and Gins work may lead. Authors involved in this special issue include: Brian Massumi, Gregg Lambert, Tom Conley, David Kolb and Jondi Keane among others. A journal launch for the issue was held at DHC art, a Montreal art gallery where the journal was projected. The issue can be accessed here: http://www.inflexions.org/issues.html#i6  
 In April 2014, Inflexions 7: Animating Biotechnology was published. This issue’s Node section was edited by guest editors Adam Nocek and Phillip Thurtle, with the Tangents section edited by Marie-Pier Boucher and Adam Szymanski. The issue brought together leading scholars approaching biotechnology from a humanities perspective, including Richard Doyle, Eugene Thacker, Deborah Levitt and Henning Schmidgen. The Tangents section published a number of artistic works that in some way animate biophilosophical concepts, including works by established artists such as dancer Hiroki Umeda, contemporary artist David Zink-Yi and a number of experimental architects including Greg Lynn. The issue was launched at Artexte, a Montreal art archive in April, 2014. The launch was an event in its own right, featuring a tour of the Artexte community partner archive space and multiple computer stations where readers could interact with the journal’s interactive online design on site. The issue can be accessed here: http://www.inflexions.org/issues.html#i7 
Inflexions 8 is due out in March 2015. The theme for this issue is Radical Pedagogy, a theme that resonates with concerns that have long been held with the Senselab’s efforts to find new modes of evaluation for research-creation within the academy. The issue grows out of a number of Sensleab efforts to create alternative venues for the presentation and dissemination of research. Some of these outlets include the Knots of Thought series, the monthly reading group, and the workshops with Adriana Disman from the School of Making-Thinking. The editors of the Node for this issue are Alanna Thain, Mike Hornblow, and Mayra Morales. The editors for the Tangents are Gerko Egert, Katve-Kaisa Kontturi and Ilona Hongisto. The Nodes are expected to contain essays by Ronald Rose-Antionette, Erik Bordeleau and Silvia Pinto-Coehlo. 
The Senselab is also currently in the process of publishing our second out of series effort, Anarchiving: Precarity. This issue stems from our event of the same name, that brought together artists and writers in a research-creation project for creating event-based procedures for crafting the creative potential immanent to precarity. The result of this publication with be a choreographic object emerging from a set of procedures rather than a traditional journal issue structured around articles. The publication itself is taking place in phases, and we collectively build it on a monthly basis. These further making sessions are co-ordinated through three continent Skype with our hubs in Europe and Australia. 
Inflexions is an open-access journal for research-creation sponsored by the Sense Lab. It publishes articles, short texts of various genres including poetry and ficto-theory, images, sound, and other multimedia content. We invite writing and/or other forms of expression actively exploring such issues as: (inter/trans/non) disciplinarity; the emergence of new modes of collaboration; micropolitics and the life and death of institutions; creativity, subjectivity and collectivity in cultural production; the ethics of aesthetics; the aesthetic as ethics. The goal is to promote experimental practices combining research and creation in such a way as to foster symbiotic links between philosophical inquiry, technological innovation, artistic production, and social and political engagement. Of continuing concern will be how these efforts may renew and recast relations between the concrete and the abstract, perception and conception, the body and technology. We hope the journal will become a tool for thinkers, builders, artists, informal groupings, and institutions to develop a mutually sustaining and enriching dialogue around these issues.
We encourage inter/trans/non disciplinary work, both individual and collaborative, that is not content to critique or negate existing models but affirms the value of creation in the research process. We also encourage authors to embrace the technical possibilities of the Web, and to test the limits of of academic writing, by considering integrating their writing with other forms of expression.
INFLEXIONS ISSUES are built around special-edited thematic clusters and invited contributions. Each is edited by one or several members of the editorial collective or by invited external editors working in consultation with the editorial collective. We publish contributions in English and French.
The NODE features a group of conceptually interlinked pieces that engage with a particular problematic in a variety of different modes, including but not limited to academic essays. TANGENTS present individual tangential contributions. Tangents pieces strike off in directions all their own, and resonate across their divergences. Taken together, they suggest potential connections with each other and the issue Node. 
The members of our editorial collective and advisory board are involved in various practices of research-creation. Inflexions is a member of the Open Humanites Press journal collective.