Events:
From February to May, 2014 Knots of Thought met monthly at Usine C’s Le Plancher to generate shared reflection and cross-disciplinary dialogues. These meetings created a space for SenseLab members to address the concerns of their practices and their research in a collective manner, also serving as an opportunity to meet with newcomers and international guests. The conversations shuttled between theoretical and artistic contributions, moving transversally from reflections on rumours and digital media to philosophy, and from music improvisation to research on public feeling and infectious sound. Meeting on Wednesday afternoons in the sunlit lobby at Usine C, we created a pop-up lounge for contributors to reflect on questions at the heart of their current practices and research.
Alternating with Movements of Thought, Knots invited artists and scholars to engage across textual and non-textual practices, addressing leaping-off points, intensities, and blockages vital to their current work. Grappling together with recurring preoccupations and shared experience, Knots thus invited conversations between members’ projects and those of researchers new to the group. These meetings, as with all of SenseLab’s events, were open to the public, and they sought with particular emphasis to involve new members and visitors to Montreal. 
“Wrappings and Openings” (26/02) invited guest Richard K. Sherwin, professor of visual communications and law (NYU on Fulbright exchange at McGill), to reflect on knottings of performance and digital media, exploring investments in digital rumours, hoaxes, and theatre. Concordia M.A. student and visual artist Csenge Kolozsvari then passed a hand-held, two-channel video work around the group, connecting breath to sculpture and performative knottings in sound and video art. Paris VIII doctoral candidate Ronald Rose Antoinette (philosophy) and guest Maude Wattel (devised performance) then initiated a surprise reading environment, sharing Rose’s unfinished and abandoned, French-language novel as a temporal meditation on texts in suspension.
In March (26/03), Knots embarked on “The Thing We Do Not Perceive Yet,” exploring temporal delays and leakage as ways of conceiving changing relationships to events. Corina and Laura Ilea brought bilingual knots, short fiction and photography, into conversation, also improvising timing with guest sound artist and theremin player John Jacob Courtney. Then Macklin Kowal, a prospective graduate student, dancer, and performance studies scholar visiting from New York, shared his performance research on leaking, a concept of illicit transmission spanning the body as well as information. 
In April (23/04), we focused on affect and memory, returning to music as a strategy for decentring speech as a medium of working-thinking. This session began with Brian Massumi’s reflections on forgetting and dementia, approaching fear as a silent, affective preoccupation dense with accumulated conceptions of the subject in time. Massumi’s reflection was followed by cellist Ian Gibbons, contributing a knot on improvisation and practicing scores, such as Bach’s, over a lifetime of practice, reflecting on the experience of playing with his grandfather as a listener late in life when other forms of communication were blocked by language and memory. Following a group writing exercise, Adam Szymanski, a core SenseLab member and Concordia PhD student in film studies, opened a reflection on public feelings and film, addressing his dissertation prospectus on cinema and depression as sites of the blurring of public and private experience. Laura Ilea then returned to collect photographs ‘of’ fear that she had invited the group to participate in during the month between knots.
Our final Knot this spring (21/06) invites Eldritch Priest, a SSHRC post-doctoral researcher working with Brian Massumi, to share his work on sound, refrains, and structures of repetition. His proposed gathering on “Ear Worms” offers shared philosophical and sonic explorations of fragments of melody that repeat and infect our memories unbidden. Priest’s knot will be preceded the week before the Usine C event with a SenseLab group reading of Steve Goodwin’s “1971: The Earworm,” Peter Szendy’s Hits: Philosophy in the Jukebox (excerpt), and Hans Raffaseder’s “Audio Brands and Brand Sounds.”
Knots continues next year facilitated by a 2014-15 Immediations post-doctoral fellow, offering further collective and public grounds for exploring the transmission of our academic and artistic projects as modes of making-thinking, shared perception, and practice.