Description
Founded by Dr Najmeh, Khalili Mahani in July 2013, and sponsored by Senelab, Brain, Self and Society is a knowledge-transfer group that gathers around "popular" neuroscience topics, to discuss the philosophical, sociological and political implications of "Neurotalk", and "neuroeconomics". The meeting idea was inspired by the work of the prominent sociologist, Professor Nikolas Rose in the London School of Economics (currently heading the Department of Social Science, Health and Medicine at King’s College London), and is a response to the growing presence of the neurocentric discourse in different academic fields, as well as media and even economy.
The meeting format is informal, and includes a presentation either by N Khalili-Mahani, or an invited expert guests, covering the historical context of the topic, and then assisting the audience to contextualize the contemporary questions within the bigger historical, political and economic context. Najmeh Khalili-Mahani is a Biomedical Engineer, a Neuroscientist and a media-studies graduate, and uses knowledge from these three fields to provide a multi-contextualized perspective to how body, technology and society intersect and interact to form persona, philosophies and ultimately politics. 
Whereas events such as TED-talks and Cafe Scientific are great initiatives that bring the academics and the public under one roof, the transfer of knowledge remains mainly top-down and uni-directional. The ambition of this project is to break this hierarchical norm, anonymize the "scientist" by putting him/her on a "Humanitiesl" stage and let the conversation happen (events last between 2-3 hours). The event aims to provide the general public with access to current topics in neuroscience while providing them an opportunity to ask (any) questions in an informal and inviting setting. This event also provides the speakers a chance to discover the meaning of their laboratory work for average citizens.
To date, the event has attracted more than 200 subscribers, and meetings are usually filled up to 30-person capacity-registration by RSVP on the meet up website. Members have wide range of interests, from engineering, to molecular biology, to theology and spirituality as well as arts and philosophy. Demographically, the group is heterogeneous and includes a range from retired grandmothers, to first year college students. Brain, Self & Society also shares agenda with Montreal's Neuroethics Network, and members of the group have access to Neuroethics seminars at IRCM.
A manuscript (30,000 words) entitled "Human Brain Mapping, Past, Present and Future" is completed by Najmeh Khalili-Mahani.The manuscript covers the parallels between the quest for discovering the link (or dichotomy) of Brain and Mind since Descartes to present and will be submitted to  Science, Technology & Human Values or similar.
Prior to 2014, topics on Neuroimaging, Artistic Brain, Empathy, Autism and Addiction have been addressed. In the coming months, presentations will be more focused on corporeality of mental and psychological experiences.
The event is free of charge. Location and presentation equipments are provided by the Senselab.