3 Mile Meal Research-creation Event
From August 23-25, 2013, SenseLab produced 3 Mile Meal in collaboration with Boston's Design Centre for Social Intervention (DC4SI), a Community Partner in Immediations. This event was born from a desire to design an event that would bring the larger-frame goals of Immediations into the public sphere, and also to create an event for the community at large that would integrate SenseLab and our aims through Immediations "to the streets". 
The event was based on the idea that as neighbours and citizens, we often lack crucial information about each other and about issues that are pertinent to the built environments of urban spaces that we inhabit together. 3 Mile Meal posited that finding common ground through shared time and space is more important than information exchange, and that finding common ground through shared activities can lead to future collaborations that can be fruitful in enhancing our understanding of each other. 
For 3 Mile Meal, SenseLab invited people in three adjacent neighbourhoods - Outremont, Mile End and Park Ex - to explore their curiosity about each other through political, artistic, and social means. The event took place over three days at three sites (see sidebar), where three versions of bread -challah, dosas, and crepes –served by SenseLab members and community leaders (one frequent SenseLab collaborator, who was instrumental for 3 Mile Meal in Outremont, was Friends of Hutchison leader Mindy Pollak. She was subsequently elected as a borough councillor in Montreal's municipal elections in October 2013.  
The three public kitchens were linked by three “lack of information booths”  - mobile sculptures designed by SenseLab and built from Schwinn tricycles that circulated between the sites providing foliage, spices and drinks. They were also linked to the three sites via handlebar-mounted iPads that shared video linkage throughout the three-day event.
SenseLab conceived Three Mile Meal in collaboration with the Design Studio for Social Intervention (DS4SI), a Boston group with a rich history of combining design with social activism; the event was linked with the successful and innovative Public Kitchens produced by DS4SI in contested neighbourhoods in Boston. 
3 Mile Meal was the first public event since the beginning of Immediations; thus, the intention was for it to function both as a mode of integration for the SenseLab the community at large, and as a space that strengthened existing alliances with citizens, artists, and activists, while creating new ones for the purpose of furthering our research interest within the context of our community.
3 Mile Meal: a food-sharing and lack-of-information-gathering event took place at three public kitchens – August 23, 24, 25 2013, from 2-5 pm. 
In Outremont: In front of La Boutique du Fleuriste (1011 Bernard O.) 
In Mile End: Next to Fruiterie Mile End (5686 ave du Parc)
In Park Ex: In front of Marché Ogilvy (400 ave. Ogilvy, across the street from Parc metro)