Time Forms Research Event
Time Forms: The Temporalities of Aesthetic Experience. A Major Research-Creation conference at McGill University and the Centre Phi. Sept. 17-21, 2013. Co-organized with Eric Lewis (Philosophy) and Stephen McAdams (Music Psychology). Organized by Alanna Thain in collaboration with Eric Lewis and Stephen McAdams of McGill; included participants from the Immediations team: Annette Svaneklink Jakobsen, Toni Pape, Mike Hornblow, Leslie Plumb, Thomas Pringle, Elliott Rajnovic, Melora Koepke, Sean Smith and Sarah Manya)
“Time Forms: Temporalities of Aesthetic Experience” was a four-day major research-creation workshop that explored the ‘when’ of art today, held at McGill University and the Phi Centre in Montreal from September 18-21, 2013, curated by Eric Lewis (Philosophy), Stephen McAdams (Music Research) and Alanna Thain (English and World Cinemas) of McGill University. Bringing together scholars, artists, curators and the public, this event investigated art events that intimately involve a temporal dimension, in order to explore different concepts, kinds and components of temporality in the experiencing of art.  In exploring such questions as: ‘what concepts of time are relevant to the experience of art?’; ‘what are the ways in which time plays a role in such experiences?’ and ‘what qualities are specific to time-based arts?’, Time Forms addressed art today as a critical site for resisting the homogenization of a modern “clock time” that subdivides duration into discrete and identical units.  Do aesthetic experiences give us unusual experiences of time, and if so, how and to what end?  How does art “make time felt”?
This event aimed to explore forms in time and the ways time forms experience by bringing together scholars and creators of artistic media that intimately involve a temporal dimension in the experience they engender. Participants explored different concepts, kinds and components of experiential temporality as they are manifested in a variety of artistic forms. The event itself was designed to have a large-scale temporal structure that modulated the temporal experience of continuity, immersion and distraction over the whole event, within which were embedded smaller structures with an interleaving of thought-provoking scholarly presentations, performances or presentations of art forms, creative workshops, and moments of repose, reflection and nourishment or other modes of distraction such as moving around space to get to different events, thereby discovering spaces in between the events.
Our participants were drawn from both academic and artistic practices, exploring arts such as dance, music, cinema, digital media, installation art, as well as research practices that take innovative approaches to the analytical challenges of time forms in art. As befits a research-creation event on aesthetic experience, participation not only involved the presentation of artworks or research findings, but participation in and reflection on aesthetic experience itself. Part of the event’s research program, then, developed a dialogue across discrete events to determine how time works in aesthetic experience, to develop new research and pedagogical models for exploring these questions, and for understanding how art works on the bodies and experiences of spectators/ participants over time.
Innovative in both form and content, this event asked participants (presenters and the audience) to give careful consideration to the time of presentation and performance itself. Each presenter proposed a “time form” for sharing their work, to make the event itself a site of creative experimentation and heterogeneous experiences of time.  The organizers curated these proposals into an event that dynamically enacted the key issues arising from the temporalities of aesthetic experience itself, outside of the traditional structure of a research-conference. We alternated condensed and discrete experiences, such as roundtables on the body in time as artistic medium, with durational and mobile temporal events, such as an Acceleration running tour of public art and interactive citywalks, as well as looped and discrete presentations of new media installations, video, sculptures, live performances and more.  Thus the event simultaneously addressed both the “time forms” of contemporary art and research (i.e. what forms of aesthetic expression foreground their temporal dimension, and to what end?), and also the question of how time forms (i.e. how time itself is a force giving shape and content to aesthetic experience that is different from everyday time, work time and clock time).