Anarchiving: Precarity
On the weekend of April 25-27, members of the Senselab collective met in the Eastern Townships for the Anarchiving: Precarity event. This event was one phase in our collaborative work that as been ongoing since the Spring of 2013 on the question of how to make a collectively constructed issue on precarity in a way that engages artistic forms outside of the written word.
We began by cultivating ideas around precarity circulating in the Senselab and solicited various submissions (of text, images, videos, sound recordings) from the members of the collective. We archived these contributions, and then at Bioscleave: Entering the Event we worked to activate that archive by creating a collective writing machine. With over 40 participants, we worked through a variety of strategies including experimenting with the interview form, “exquisite corpse” collective writing techniques, iPhone photography and storytelling in order to create a collective enunciation around precarity. The results of this collective enunciation was then added to our precarity archive, in the form of even more images, videos, short essays, poems, sound recordings and more. 
In order to tap into the archive in a way produces of an out-of series issue of Inflexions, we worked on developing immanent editing techniques for activating the archive. Some of these techniques included editing based on the affective tonality of archival materials.
We eventually developed a set of procedures for anarchiving precarity inspired by our collective reading of Arakawa and Gins’ Architectural Body at Bioscleave: Entering the Event. These procedures were developed over months of experimenting with different procedural possibilities. The procedures were posted on our website (http://inflexions.org/anarchivingprecarity/procedure.html) in advance of our Anarching: Precarity event, and functioned as an entry point for the all three hubs Canada, Europe, Australia to procedurally synchronize their research-creation events. We connected our relational movement practices and through the use of Skype throughout the weekend. These relational movement practices were our procedurally chosen modes of exploring how the concept of precarity can be opened up onto questions of experience and perception, a concern that we arrived t through reading groups that we held on two afternoons of the event. 
We left traces of our relational movement in written form, creating choreographic objects that we then sent to the other hubs. Upon receiving our gift which emerged from our experimentation, the other hubs will respond with choreographic objects of their own, building an anarchive of texture and materiality evocative of precarity in the process. The process will play our according to our phasing procedure, which can be interacted with on our website, here: http://inflexions.org/anarchivingprecarity/anarchive.html. 
The Anarchiving: Precarity event is ongoing in this regard and will continue to activate all three hubs around the anarchiving of precarious experience through December 2014. 
Members present: Erin Manning, Brian Massumi, Sarah Manya, Adam Szymanski, Csenge Kolozsvari, Mayra Morales, Ramona Benveniste, Toni Pape, Leslie Plumb, Céline Pereira, Alanna Thain, Mike Hornblow.