Research-creation for Social Justice Workshop in Boston
From the 17-19th of May, 2013 select participants from the Senselab joined partners from the Design Studio For Social Intervention (DS4Si http://ds4si.org/) for a weekend conference. Welcomed by Kenneth Bailey and Lori Lobenstine, the founding team at the DS4i members of the Senselab were introduced to the mission of DS4i - a collaborative design studio which seeks to provide communities, organizers and activists with unconventional approaches to urban problem solving, enhancing community strength, youth work, and anti-violence campaigns. While nearly every urban center in the United States has organizations which strive to assist underserved communities and fill the gaps in services which federal, state and local governments do not provide, the majority of such institutions are traditional not-for-profit models which often do not take into account the assets, individuals and talents latent in a community which can be used to construct its own change. As such the DS4i sees itself as a collaborative effort between enacting social programs with local residents as well as providing training and consulting with existing activists and community partners in order to help them gain a more ‘design centered’ holistic approach to community change. 
Centered in Boston, Massachusetts the DS4i confronts high rates of poverty in underserved communities of colour and a prevalence of youth on youth violence which for many of our members from Montreal and abroad was both unfamiliar and alarming. The visit underscored for many of the members of Senselab who participated how palpably different the sense of pressing and insistent need for activism and community change was in Boston than in our Montreal hub. This heightened sense of urgency and intensity with which the activist and alternative educational community must work with in this environment spurred conversation and dialog with regard to the place of activism and community change within academic and research based institutions. 
Along with Kenneth and Lori, the visiting Senselab group met with other Ds4i partners, Najma Nazy'at Director/Lead Organizer of the Boston Youth Organizing Project and Judith Leemann, Faculty member at MassArt. A workshoping event took place in which the participants reviewed prior DS4i projects and activist models in an effort to refine the ways in which the studio endeavours to effect change in both its immediate and broader communities. Of particular interest was the team’s October 2012 ‘Public Kitchen’ event, which inspired the collaboration between Senselab and the DS4i which would become the August 2013 event ‘Three Mile Meal/ Bouffe Sur Trois Bornes’. 
This three day visit was vital and inspiring for all involved. New connections were formed between core members of both the Senselab and the DS4i as well as their wider networks, allowing for emergent and future collaborations to develop. The work of the DS4i enacts many of the core ideological and philosophical concerns of the Senselab regarding affect, ecological thinking, and creating a space for non-conventional non-neurotypical perception of our communities and our world. 
 
Inflexions