[10] Alan Cholodenko, in the introductions and  essays  he wrote for the two inestimably important volumes of animation theory that  he  edited, takes  on  a number of the  same  problematics that  I do  here.  He  is also  interested in 1) the kind   of  life  that   obtains in  animation, 2)  its  relations to  representation and simulation,  3)  the   relationship  of  cinematic  to   animatic  apparatus  and   4) animation’s position in a history of artificial  life. This work  has informed my own greatly, but I am ultimately making different arguments on all of these counts. To address  the   first   and   second,  Cholodenko  consistently  posits   animation— whether its the  manner in which  it “suspends the  distinction between representation and  simulation” (1991: 22) or “between animism and  mechanism, animation and  cinema,  human and  nonhuman” (2007: 509) or in its “lifedeath” (2007:509) as a force of indetermination and  aporia. Although he addresses a dazzling array  of theoretical positions, his formulations ultimately return to this structure.  I  see   this   structure—also  encapsulated  beautifully  in   Schwartz’s diagnosis of cinema’s  indetermining of the philosopheme life/death—as not only describing the ontological crisis of the cinematic regime but as a kind  of symptom of  it.  When  it  comes  to  the  animatic apparatus,  and  theoretical positions, his formulations ultimately return to this structure. I see this structure—also encapsulated beautifully in  Schwartz’s diagnosis of cinema’s  indetermining of the philosopheme life/death—as not only describing the ontological crisis of the cinematic but in fact as a kind  of symptom of it. When  it comes to its configuration at the current conjuncture, this formula is in fact no longer  operative in the same way.  To address the  third issue  enumerated above,  my  own  conception of the relations between the cinematic and animatic is thus  different from Cholodenko’s in  a number of ways.  Please  see  footnote 22 below  for  a brief  remark on  the genealogy of the animatic in relation to artificial  life.