and   particularly  importantly,  his  voice—are  taken   from   him   by  an  absent “director” hell-bent on reminding him  of his ceaseless  production-by-pencil and voiceover and  the  always existent  threat of his  metamorphosis or  erasure. We first  see Daffy  Duck  in a swashbuckler, telling  his musketeers to stand aside  as the  enemy “samples his blade,” but  as Daffy  stabs  forward with  his sword, the background scenery  disappears, and  we  find  ourselves in  the  void  of a blank frame.  The scenery  returns as a farm. Momentarily put-out, Daffy quickly  adapts to   his   new   surroundings,  appearing  in   overalls  with   a   hoe   singing  Old Macdonald (or, rather, “Daffy  Duck,  he had  a farm  . . .). But just as Daffy settles into his new routine, his surroundings metamorphose again  and  he finds himself in an arctic  landscape complete with  an igloo.  The background transformations stop—but only because Daffy himself  becomes  the unwilling object of the morph. His  body   is  erased and   redrawn in  multiple ways;   at  one  point   an  almost psychedelic parti-colored Daffy  walks  on all fours  and  has  a flag for a tail. Just when it seems  that  the voice may  be his one constant and  ontological anchor, it too  is  stolen  from  him.  When  he  opens   his  mouth to  speak   there  is  silence, followed by a cock’s crow  and  a monkey’s call. This particular assault provokes Daffy’s characteristic “I have  never  been  so humiliated in my life!” A number of other  mutations involve the  cartoon’s animatic coordinates. The  medium itself appears to turn  against Daffy,  contesting his  existence  at every  twist  and  turn. The top of the frame  falls on Daffy like a stage  curtain coming  undone. The film strip  begins  to roll  and  his  image  is doubled, with  one  Daffy  in a frame  above and  another in a frame  below.  The subjective  insult  of his  very  reproducibility leads  to an antagonistic encounter between the two Daffys. Finally,  at the end  of his last nerve,  Daffy asks “Who  is responsible for this?   I demand that  you show yourself!”