If these  classical  examples provide a kind  of distilled, eidetic  version of the life- logic of animation, it still remains to establish where and  in what  ways  we  see manifestations of this logic in contemporary culture. Advertising and celebrity culture are often the most  direct  pipelines into at least a certain  dimension of the cultural phantasmagoria, and  here  they  help  to  illustrate  animation’s medial “life.”  In  online  auto  insurance  company  Esurance’s “get  animated” series  of commercials,  the   nature  of  animation  is  presented  quite   simply.  The   real Esurance customers who  are  chosen   (now  via  talent   search)   to  undergo this ontological metamorphosis are, on its other  side,  slimmer, more  attractive, more mobile,  and  faster.  Shown  in the  beginning of the  flash  shorts  as their  real-life, modestly  attractive  but   not  celebrity-ideal  selves,   they   are  transformed into mobile  line.  In that form they save time, they save paper, they save trees.  (Many of Esurance’s animations include an ecological  pitch.   Go virtual, they  say, save the  environment).  Esurance’s newly-animated  customer-characters  whisk through work  and  play  actively  with  their  cartoon kids.  Their  bodies  no longer have  to  encounter gravity’s  forces,  or  any  material resistance for  that  matter. One online  comment reads  “to be hot you don’t  even have  to be pretty anymore, you  just  have  to  ‘pop’  in  an  exaggerated way  like  a  cartoon  character.”  (In another context  but a similar  vein, the social-networking site Facebook  advertises a partner site where you can “animate yourself” which  in this case means  having a  photo transformed into  a  cartoon  caricature). Getting “animated”  replaces being    “discovered”;  Adorno   and    Horkheimer’s  shopgirl   now    dreams  of becoming an animated character rather than—or along with—a  movie  star. In the former  scenario,  the   paradigm  of  “discovery”  maintains  an   existence   that precedes  the   becoming-spectacular,  and   continues  to  haunt  and   inflect   the