The cyborg  is a hybrid figure  that  references a hybrid ontology—human on one side,  cybernetic or more  broadly machinic on  the  other,  as well  as, at least  for Haraway, a particular technoscientific genealogy. The doll  does  a very  different kind  of conceptual work,  performing the logic of animation’s an-ontology. While the  object of Oshii’s  diagnosis is, like Haraway’s, contemporary technoscientific spectacular  culture,  the   displacement  of  the   work   of  the   cyborg   onto   the shoulders of  the  doll  seems  to  be  suggesting that,  recalling Heidegger,  “the essence  of  technology is  nothing  technological,” or  high-technological, in  any event  (Heidegger 1982). [21] And I think  Oshii is right. If what  is at stake is understanding the new modes of life emerging from contemporary forms  of simulation—from biotechnologies to cinematic animation to new  forms  of biopolitics—the   key    can’t    be   the    digital   or   the    computational   or   the biocybernetic. These are its features, its technical-material supports.  It would be tautological—rather than  diagnostic—to ascribe  explanatory force to these  topoi. The  an-onto-logic of the  doll  is, instead, a kind  of philosophical and  aesthetic figure,   one  that   has  appeared  in  different  guises   at  a  number  of  historical conjunctures.   It is now,  however, becoming a dominant or  hegemonic, rather than  an  eccentric  or  minor,   cultural logic—as  it  appears in  and as the animatic. Animation thus  provides a manner of thinking and  analyzing the imaginary that subtends the  new  simulative forces  and  forms  emerging from  this  cultural and technical dispositif. [22] At first glance  it may seem that the notion of animation as theorizing the  animatic might  also  possess a kind  of tautological structure. But the  characteristic that  distinguishes animation from,  for example, the  digital, is that  animation is a super-medium that (along with all aesthetic media) thinks. I call it a super-medium  because its  diverse variants—imagine stop  motion object animation and  classical  hand drawn cel animation (and  then  add  all of the new technical possibilities)—create their own media within it.