According to Agamben, the “massive manipulations” of the body  (and  especially the female  body)  in the spectacle likewise  tear  human notions of the body  from their  traditional relation to  both  theological and  biological  essences.  Agamben also asserts,  and  here  incorrectly—or rather, in a manner inconsistent with  more contemporary developments—that capital’s  desire  is to have  all transformation take  place  on  the  side  of  the  spectacle so  that  the  body,  as  in  La Dolce Vita, continues to survive but only in its shadow. He writes,  “what was technologized was  not  the  body,  but  its  image.  Thus  the  glorious body  of  advertising had become   the  mask  behind which   the  fragile,  slight  human body  continues its precarious existence,  the geometrical splendor of the “girls”  covers  over the long lines of the naked, anonymous bodies  led to their  death in the Lagers  (camps)  . .
.” He  is referring to the  Tiller  Girls,  a dance  troupe that  performed in theaters and  cabarets in Weimer  Germany and  was  described by Kracauer in his famous essay of 1927, “The Mass Ornament”—but one can also think  of the conceptually identical, if cinematically realized, rows  of women in Busby  Berkeley’s musical numbers,  arms   and   legs   swinging  in   perfect   tandem  to   produce  formal geometries, individual  bodies   submerged in  his  mechanically-timed, perfectly optimized optical  girl-machine. According to  Agamben’s example, all  of these sites  are  possessed by the  same  logic of bodies  whose  movements are  timed to the  rhythm of  the  machine (whether factory  conveyor belt  or  forced  march), where the “girls”  produce an a spectacular, “ornamental” version, making it available  for   consumption  and   enjoyment.  To  this   example,  with   its  very particular topography and  logic,  Agamben adds several  others—including the transsexual  body—with extremely different configurations, ones  in  which  the body   is   clearly   directly  materially  invested  and   transformed.  He   doesn’t, however, note the shift in topography—or in apparatus.