If the earlier works were in the element of culturability, the element of "Amodal Suspension" is sociability: the reaching-toward language of relation, freed from the finalities of interaction. "Element" is used here in a slightly different sense than when it was said that bare activity was the element of the body, with an accent of "the elements" in the weather sense. The difference might be thought of as the difference between the elements and the prevailing visibility conditions. The element of a relational act is a kind of lensing through which the integrality of the relational field is refracted through its material quality, giving the processual span of the coming act a focal length setting its constitutive limits. The element is the refractive angle by which the relational field folds into the act's coming to its own expression as the manner of event it stages (as medium of expression).li It might be said to be the manner of the event's potential, as opposed to the manner of the act's performance of that potential. In "Amodal Suspension," language -ability is socially refracted.
A social act is open to the sayings of others. It doesn't have to be rebegun, for the simple reason that it never ends. It undulates across a continuous rhythm of words reacting upon reservoired words, in rippling waves. A social act doesn't perish. Its rising already subsides into the background noise of the sea of sociality. Culturability culminates in a placeable determination. Sociability ebbs and flows with the vagueness of a continuous background murmur. Sociability and culturability overlap. A cosmic culturing current runs through sociability, overspilling it at both limits. Culturability incipiently outstretches the social at the immanent cosmic limit, to rejoin the full stretch of the nature-culture continuum. At the opposite pole, it  oversteps sociability to enact its own internal human limit in a taking determinate communicational form. The two domains are overlapping, interfused, but asymmetrical, hanging between off-set limits and angling their enaction through different elemental lenses.