Vološinov's calls the in-forming of an act of expression by the open field of culturability and sociability, in their overlap and interfusion, "impletion."lii Etymologically, that means infolding. "Personality, from the standpoint of its inner, subjective content," he writes, " is a theme of language." Personality is a theme of language. The implications are enormous. It makes it nonsensical to speak of speech as being subjectively owned in any fundamental way, as if there were an isolable private person lurking "behind" the act. There is no behind, only in-folding in folding out again, in a to-and-fro of the open field folding in on itself. What we call our personal thinking is anything but. It is the thinking of the open field, as passes languageward hrough a given point in a simultaneous two-way movement. Our thinking is integrally in-formed by the thinking-feeling of the open field. Our thinking rides astraddle scales and dimensions of experience, telescoped into processual proximity in the material quality of thought-signs. Our thinking is not effectively separable from this bare activity. It is not effectively ownable. It ultimately belongs not to me, but to the process expressing itself in and through my acts. My personality is the unique way the open field of thinking-feeling impletes my acts of expression: the way the field inflects and modulates itself through the following one upon the other of the ongoing series of acts I claim as  my own and experience as manifesting what it's like to be me. "The inner personality is generated along with language."liii It is the way the open field of relations channels through the ambulent locus for the production of acts of expression whose proximate neighborhood is my individual body. My personality is my theme.
Processually speaking, "a word is not an expression of an inner personality; rather, inner personality is an expressed or inwardly impelled word."liv The word is inwardly impelled when "stable constructions of language" grow around an embodied locus of expression that "abstractly segregate" the series of acts channeling through that locus from others. lv The eddy of bare activity that marks the turning point where the open field's infolding unfolds is abstractly segregated, as if it did not belong to the field but only to its locus in the field. The potential that issues forth turns back on itself, more like water swirling around a drain than waves cresting in the sea. Thought-signs carrying expressive potentials are forced down the drain before they are allowed to issue forth. The inner personality is the catchment basin for these inwardly impelled thought-signs. It holds a surplus reservoir of thought-signs carrying drained potentials, turning over on each other in their piped confinement. Some will gurgle back up into the issuing of an expressive act. The expression will appear to have been locally originated, piped back up from the restricted confines of the catchment. It will be heard as issuing from a segregated locus, from separate coordinate position on the cultural map. Cultural acts will no longer be experienced as fusing relationally. They will only appear to interact: to connect extrinsically, at a segregative distance, through stable constructions that mediating expression by channeling it through regulated lines of call-and-response. Every interactive exchange will now be doubled, not by the fusional-relational abstract surface of transindividual becoming-body, but by a private subject, an inner personality "sharing" thoughts drawn from a private reservoir. The kinesthetic amoeba is muffled. It gurgles in the drain trap, gagging on its own potential. When the expressive act is segregated in this way, thinking-feeling disaggregates. The thinking pulls away from the feeling. No more lascivious amoeba thinking-feeling with pseudopod reach extending in all directions. In its place, moral, upright me. It is only "I," the stable, regulated moral person, owner of my own expressions; it is only "I" who thinks. My body and its movements are now little more than the outwardly visible positioning of my inward private thinking, mediated for public consumption by the stable constructions of the prevailing norms of expression.
The eddy has declared its independence from the stream. Speech is individualized. This is the invention of the "sovereign" bourgeois individual. Theme in Vološinov's sense, with its immanently formative connection to extraverbal levels, has been abstractly segregated on the side of the isolable individual, in a way that effectively confines it to the personality. A stable partitioning has been instituted between the "private" sphere, dedicated to the subjective manifestation of the "inner personality," and a "public" sphere of intersubjective communication where statements are answerable to norms of expression and subject to public judgment as to their "correctness" and "objectivity." This carries out another abstract segregation: of judgeable semantic content from theme. Theme may continue, personalized, inwardly impelled, eddying on in a barely discernible gurgle "behind" the intersubjective exchange, but it is only the semantic meaning of language, properly mediated by the formal structure of its stable constructions, that counts publically.
It was at a certain point in history, Vološinov argues, that specific mechanisms were invented to abstractly segregate cultural acts from their impletion.lvi The point in history was the nineteenth century, and the result was the invention of the "sovereign" bourgeois individual. A partition was instituted between the "private" sphere, dedicated to the subjective manifestation of the "inner personality," and the "public" sphere of intersubjective communication subject to rules of propriety and objectivity. The public sphere is the collective correlate to the segregation of expression in the individual person. It comes to be synonymous with the social, appearing in the externalized figure of "society" over and against the individual. In well-regulated social interaction, the cultural differences a person may carry as a trace of their belonging to a field of life larger than themselves, in unplaceable continuity with the alien, and extending the threshold of expression beyond the vicinity of known potential, must be checked at the door of the public sphere – lest personal sensitivities be insulted. The same mechanisms that individualize expression segregate "culture" from "society." 
Publicly, acts of language do not intensely express; they judiciously "represent." What they represent is the socially recognized position occupied by the private person vis-à-vis socially acceptable others after its own segregated kind. Rules of decorum place the public expression at a polite remove, maintaining a safe distance between "inner personalities." A slightly expanded circle draws itself around the individual, allowing for intersubjective communication that remains restricted enough to still be considered "private" from the regulatory point of view of the public sphere: the circle of the family, or the circle of friends. Such social circles are segregated spheres for the representation of the inner personality to more or less intimate others. What remnants remain of the formative, bare-active intensity of expression is allowed a restricted expression within the concentric circles of the private. There, it manifest as "moods," quirks of personality, and private pathologies – subjective inflections of expression whose public broadcast would be improper. The pseudopods of expression retract, and pathologically wither. The virtual immensity of expression contracts to the size of an "I" whose uprightness is now shadowed by what will be figured as the personal unconscious: stagnant repository of inwardly impelled thought-signs of undecorous tendency.
There is only one word for language segregated from theme and reduced to its semantic content and formal structure: "dead."lvii Society, understood as a public sphere at a decorous remove from the "inner personality," is the death of culturability as it is understood here: as a relationally mutational regenerative movement running the nature-culture to the cosmic limit. Ironically, the death of culturability is an historic cultural achievement. It is a product of enculturation taking itself to the public-private extreme (corresponding, not uncoincidentally, with the fixing and regulation of the internal limit of the human). 
Paradoxically, with the historical achievement of the externalization of the social in the figure of a public sphere populated by private individuals, sociability dies. Society, in the sense of a social order at the internal limit of the human, is the death of sociability. The murmur of the thirdness of expression – the transindividuality of the inhabitation of every expression by others – dies on the now disconnected party line. There are no circumstances recognized as in any way important where socialibility is allowed to manifest the theme of language itself, as "Amodal Suspension" was able to do under the cover of art. "Language as such" is moribund. Sociability has been euthanized by the social. The deed, paradoxically, was done by culturabililty coming to a certain conclusion. It was perpetrated by culturability extruding a pale, social copy of itself that ends up mothballing its own cresting in the cultural act in the checkroom of the public sphere. 
 It was not take long, however, before this self-stultifying achievement of culturability against itelf to come to be felt as the deadening it is. It is not so long before Debord and Baudrillard, to name the most prominent examples, proclaim the achievement of de-nature-cultured society as, paradoxically, marking the "end of the social."lviii All it took was for the mass media to bring "transparency" to public communication for "society" to audio-visibly implode into its emptiness of "theme" – its voiding of that "extra something that converts the word into a whole utterance"lix expansively implete with cultural-difference regenerating potential running all the way to the cosmic limit of nature. That "extra something" rides the waves of the murmurous sea-swell of third-party noise in the lines of communication. "Amodal Suspension" brings it to a flashpoint, from a certain processual angle that counters the segregation of culture from society in its own paradoxical way: by bringing sociability as such to expression, off-set from culturability by different constitutive limits. Not segregating it, but refracting it, in the element of the reaching for language.
We are no longer living in the mass media age. Debord and Baudrillard are so twentieth-century. The pronouncement of the end of the social was embarrassingly timed. It came at the threshold to the passage to a new regime. Sociability surreptitiously survived all along, and not only under the cover of art, waiting to make a comeback. Deadened, but not dead-ended. Where it survived, here and there, in local backwaters, was in gossip: hearsay. Its comeback took the name Internet: the technological reinvention of gossip, no longer as a slightly shameful local perversion of the public sphere troubled by unregulated personal expression leaking from  private circles, but as the universal of communication. With the Internet, hearsay becomes the "formal structure" of expression. In the youthful heyday of the mass media age, we had reporting, reliably attributed to identifiable sources (at least in theory). Now, rising phoenix-like from the ashes of the mass-media implosion of the social, we have Facebook. With social media, sociability makes a comeback, beyond both well-regulated society and the end of the social.