"Life," Vološinov remarks, "begins only at the point where utterance crosses utterance."lx The life of the social is where words co-generatively react upon words. The mutual reaction of words upon each other survives in shriveled trace form even in the public sphere, in the way in which every expression "constitutes a germ of a response."lxi If the present act of expression constitutes the germ of a response that may come next, then it stands to reason that it was itself a response which a preceding expression likewise contained in germ. But might not that preceding expression very well have germinated into more than one response? There is, after all, a whole population of individuals co-habiting the public sphere. Could not that ancestor expression have contained two germs? Or three? Or four? Or n ... Each expression is an infectious forking of the paths of sociality away from well-regulated call-and-response into a potential infinity of lines of transmission. In all that complexity, how could the lines not get tangled? How could each act of expression not resonate with any number of others? Is it not undeniable that every romantic pop song lyric is filled with the echoes of any number of other love songs, as if it were citing them en masse in its specific difference, as an individual variation on their never-ending, ever-branching collective theme? Is it possible to hear an individual political position-taking without a ring of the déjà-heard? The regulation of the public sphere is designed to background this endemic third-party noise on the line as much as possible, holding it to a residual minimum in order to safeguard the private/public split, its accompanying forms of individual recognition, responsibility and ownership, and their historic deadening of expression. But neither the deadening of the social nor the implosion at the end of the social were ever total.
	Gossip is the genre of speech that from time immemorial has stealthily re-insinuated the tangled web of third-party lines into whatever sphere or technology of communication was available. Every piece of gossip purports to be a direct report of something specific said by a particular other. Its citational practice, however, is sloppy, to say the least. You never quite know if the "he said x" is in fact a "she said he said x." Or even a "he said she said he said x." You never know how far down the line the utterance has actually come. The "owner" of the speech reported is essentially vague. Because of this, what is ostensibly a "private" exchange between two parties is on a party-line. Not only is there is a cited third speaker necessarily involved, because the statement presents itself as a report of another's utterance, there is the distinct possibility of a fourth person in line, behind what the reported-upon third person is reported to have said. Gossip is actually in the fourth person singular.lxii 
And there is more. The receiver of the tidbit of reported speech is not involved in the exchange with a clearly individual status. He or she is equally present as the representative of what "people will think." Where there is gossip, there is a teeming crowd of "he saids" and "he said she saids" and "what people thinks" and "theys." In gossip, two's a crowd. The crowding is such that the distinction between social type ("they": people of an interested ilk, however ill-defined) and self-representing individual "I" is expressively blurred. The vagueness of the subject of speech is compounded by the fact that the evaluative accent with which the speech is reported does not distinguish between the present speaker's individual accent and the implied evaluation of the third- and fourth- party speakers whose potential voices echo on the line, or between the present listener and the virtually overhearing "they" that overpopulates the exchange. The "theme" of the language act is collectively owned in its speaking. It is no sooner emitted than it is already recognized by a virtually listening multitude pregnant (in the sense that a significant pause is said to be "pregnant") with an oversupply of implied response.
Gossip is much maligned. It is commonly denounced both as threat to privacy and as a degradation of public discourse. But who are "they" who can convincingly say they viscerally prefer a well-sourced news report to the latest gossip? Despite the tendency to stereotyping inherent in gossip's collapse of type and individual into each other and in the normative accent that often accompanies the gossipy evaluations of the virtual "they," gossip is simply more socially alive than Walter Cronkite ever was. It brings us back to the sociable place where "utterance crosses utterance" and words react with gleefully irresponsible abandon on other words. 
What is so threatening about gossip to defenders of privacy and regulatory watchdogs of public speech is that it is neither: neither private exactly, nor public. Its crossing of the lines between individual and type, its blurring of the lines between "I" as this speaker and third-person other of an ilk, its collectivizing of the individual ear and socializing of evaluative accent, all of these things enable it to slip into the space between the two. Gossip inhabits the zone of indistinction between the private and the public. It has special status. It is quasi-public. Which is much the same as saying "quasi-private." 
Gossip is a machine for bringing expression a step back from the deadening internal limit of regulated intersubjective interaction toward that zone of indistinctly potentiated fusional marking the fold where the social act overlaps with the open field of culturability. Gossip backsteps from the historic achievement of culture that is the speaking bourgeois subject toward an ever-rolling, sometimes rollicking, movement of unregulated sociability, in overlap with culturability but mundanely off-set from its cosmic continuum. Gossip has been characterized as many things, but cosmic is not one of them.