Vološinov saw something similar happening in the nineteenth-century bourgeois novel, already chomping a the bit of the well-regulated bourgeois individual, under cover of art. A new mode of reported speech came into prominence. The conventional markers that formally separate the reported speech of a character from the author's reporting speech in traditional indirect discourse (he said that …; she said, " ….") are eliminated. The character's speech is directly inserted into the author's expression. This creates a "paratactic" connection between the two utterances: a direct contiguity without any marked subordination, as if "both the author and the character were speaking at the same time."lxiii "The boundaries of reported speech become extremely weak," as if the two activities of speech generation were "breaking into each other."lxiv Each retains its own evaluative accents to some extent. These "collide and interfere."lxv "Two intonations, two points of view, two speech acts converge and clash."lxvi The result is a single "varidirectional"lxvii stream of language which envelops within itself a social "interorientation."lxviii This "merging of differently oriented speech acts is quasi-direct discourse": "speech interference."lxix Expressive social noise.
	The literary use of quasi-direct discourse is one thing. What worries Vološinov is "the social tendency it expresses."lxx He saw quasi-direct discourse gaining ground outside literature, around the edges of respectable public discourse. It was clear to him that "quasi-direct discourse lines on the main road of development of modern European languages, that it signalizes some crucial turning point in the social vicissitudes of utterance."lxxi Without giving specific examples, he laments that in the rising tide of quasi-direct discourse "typifying and individualizing coatings of the utterance" become "intensely" differentiated, hypertrophied to the point that they undermine the "responsible social position implemented in it."lxxii In other words, the extreme of typicality and the extreme of individuality converge and clash. Not unlike in gossip. The two extremes combine, without mediation, in a single interorientation, a varidirectional stream of de-positioned – deterritorialized – language from which "serious ideational consideration" has been been quasied out.lxxiii What is left is the "expression of an adventitous, subjective state" of indeterminate personhood, as intensely typical as it is  hypertrophically individual. First person? Third? … Fourth it is. Folding together. Topological personhood?
	Vološinov is attached enough to traditional notions of authenticity and truth in speech to see this development as a "depression in the thematic value of the word."lxxiv He calls the tendency of quasi-direct discourse taken to this extreme the "contrived word."lxxv It might have been more in keeping with his own philosophy to see it on the contrary as the beginning of a coming to performative expression of the theme of the sociability of language itself, in an exemplification of language's essentially contrived social nature: an incipient surfacing of sociability for itself, in all its noisy inauthentic glory.