Today we live out the far side of the social tendency which made Vološinov cringe. From this vantage point it appears much less frightening: as mundane as Facebook. How more "contrived" could the word get than when it is digitized and refracted through a technological apparatus of immense complexity and tentacular reach. The same clash and convergence between extreme typicality and the hypertrophied assertion of individuality is to be found on the "personal" pages of social media. But the posts are not "personal" in anything approaching the nineteenth-century and early twentieth-century sense, when there was a clearly contrasting "public" for individual speech to be set against. Social media are the reign of the quasi-public. Facebook friends exist to interlink. The "personal" connection is made to drift across the propagating links, rippling into expanding social circles, to the point that mutual "friends" will often not know who each other are. Facebook posts are designed to relay, propagating indefinitely across the rippling sea of digital sociality. The relay function is taken even further with Twitter. Citations proliferate in paratactic contiguity with each other, merging at the limit into a single varidirectional stream of social expression. Evaluative accents clash and converge in multitudinous interorientation. Already as of April of 2011, barely five years in, it was estimated that one billion tweets were being emitted each week. Sociability giganticus. Peer-to-peer sharing, for its part, has weakened the ownership of expression, sparking often draconian rear-guard actions in defense of "intellectual  property." Hacking even more so. This, as "personal" expression on social media sites falls under the proprietary control of corporations. Content posted by individuals on Facebook belongs not to them but to Facebook, Inc. The rules of ownership formerly in place have been scrambled by the predominance of a new operator: "access" (a shift pre-diagnosed by Jeremy Rifkin in 2000).lxxvi To gain access, users are required to accept interminable contracts whose terms they never read: contractual "private" expression? In this oxymoronic brave new quasi-public social world, gossip – used here as a catch-all term for speech falling under the sway the fourth person singular – has attained a new level of prominence.
	The point about gossip is not that the gossipy content has increased. It was always high volume. It is that, with social media, the internet itself has brought to global expression and previously unheard-of prominence (at a level not even "they" would have suspected) the tendency of which gossip has been the most historically constant and reliable agent: the quasi-directification of social relation. The internet has taken quasi-direct relation to a global scale, and made it unmistakeably the dominant mode of expression. Under the impulsion of social media, the internet has ushered in the reign of the quasi-public. It has massively back-stepped the cultural act into the domain of sociability – "pure sociality" as the "field of immanence" of expressive variation, "the intrinsic nature of association" in its reaching for language.lxxvii
	The internet-led back-stepping of the cultural act into pure sociality has been decried as the death of culture. The internet has also been lamented for underminig the objectivity of public sphere expression. It has been demonized for undermining the implementation of responsible social positioning in speech and tainting the seriousness of the ideational content of expression (just a minute, haven't we heard that before? Isn't that Vološinov's version of intellectual property? Except … who did he get it from?). The internet's malevolent effects on the "inner personality," particulary in its tender childhood shoots, have been voluminously fretted over (not least of all, on the internet).
	This last worry comes to the heart of the central issue that Vološinov raised in relaton to quasi-direct social relation: the replacement of the responsibly self-positioning and seriously ideating socio-cultural subject by a quasi-direct "adventitious subjective" growth. 
	Adventitious (the definition bears repeating): "1: coming from another source and not inherent or innate 2: arising or occurring sporadically or in other than usual location" (Merriam-Webster). 
	Ultimately, the question the internet poses for culture and society is what this adventitious subjectivity, now unleashed, can become. Whatever it becomes, its singular quasi-public/quasi-private status marked by ultimately disowned, de-positioned, irresponsiblized utterances, will ensure that its becoming will be a collective individuation.lxxviii Will it rejig the respective limits of the social and the cultural? Will it refigure their overlap and immanence? Will its monstrous complexity and tentacular stretch take sociabilty itself to the pseudopodic "cosmic" limit of culture? How will it redraw the map of the human territory, as it rests on the nature-culture continuum? Will it rejuggle the zones of indistinction between the human, the animal, the technological and the generative forces for variation that crest from them? There is no paucity of futuristic prognostications on these subjects. This essay will not add more. It will content itself to  briefly mentioning what all of this indicates has always been the case for language and communication, according to Peirce: that the "interpretant" of an expression is ultimately a "quasi-mind." This has always been the case – now more than ever. Now Peirce will have the word.