To fill out this argument would certainly take a volume – if not several (if not an internet's worth). But the prospect should not at all be uninviting. We are already the guests of the quasi-mind. We are living it, or living in it, or through it, whatever we may come to think we will come to think to come to think. 
Peirce carries the Thirdness of which it has been a question throughout the second part of this chapter to the utmost limit – to the point that its quasi-directness becomes the immanent limit of existence, where the qualitative dimension of its suchness is just now coming to make itself felt in the "bare activity" of the immediate reactional struggle for determinate existence rearising, issuing into an act effecting another iteration in the infinite variation of evaluative accent on the theme of being. At this ultimate immanent limit, human thought brushes against "nonhuman thought" in a cosmic zone of indistinction between the human and the animal, and the animal and the inorganic. Somewhere on the approach this limit, a threshold is passed beyond the event, into a region of purely abstract reality, of the kind that can only be described as "amodal." For "it is undeniably conceivable that a beginningless series of successive utterers should do their work in a brief interval of time and that so should an endless series of interpreters," such that “before the sign was uttered, it was virtually present"lxxxii (on an abstract surface?). This infra-instantaneous "virtual" reality would have its own "representational mode of being" outside any particular mind or event: say, in the gossipy contrivances of exemplification. In the fourth-person singular of infra-phenomenal exemplary Thirdness is couched the immanently utmost-outside envelope of the real, the far-real. What does this say about the life of the human, the material quality of its events, and its limits? About the body? About culture and culturability? Society and sociability? Fusional relation and specific difference? What adventitious subjectivities and collective individuations are eavesdropping on us from the future on the party-line of life, extending into the inorganic? What autonomous participations and participative autonomies are calling? The questions Peirce raises are as legion as "they" are, and as compellingly vague as the ownership and the ideational content of the juiciest gossip. 
These same issues are raised in the functioning of social media and the internet, and we put the question mark on them with every post. They were also raised, before the social media fact, by Lozano-Hemmer's relational architecture. Jacques Attali famously argued that the evolution of music heralds what Vološinov called "crucial turning points" in the vicissitudes of the social and the cultural domains. "Amodal Suspension" raised the issue of the quasi-directness of social relation in 2003, a year before the founding of Facebook. In the decade before that, works like "Displaced Emperors" and "Re:Positioning Fear" raised the connected question of how culture is generatively "relationship-specific" rather than interactively "site-specific." Music is not the only art that heralds vicissitudes. Other arts, including the electronic arts, do so as well. 
The intensely participatory nature of electronic-art practices such as Lozano-Hemmer's relational architecture give us an option not open to Peirce or Vološinov: the option of not "arguing" the points. Rather, experiencing them. In fusion and out-of-scale, in two-way movement toward the present limits of experience's futurity. It gives us the option of experimenting with them, as never before. Of enactively speculating on them. Of living the next step, eventfully. Even if, now or ultimately, that step is in the direction of a crucial existential turning point beyond the bend of the event. Up until that point, whether or however it may be humanly reachable, we can save ourselves the embarrassment of futurist argument, and instead live the futurity in the event, beyond itself.