A gash in emptiness. From a plane's eye view, it is hard not to see it that way even though one knows better. The land below, we know, is vibrating with history. It is one of the oldest geological formations on earth. It is also country to the world's oldest continuous culture. It is alive with traces of passage, as animated with care and rejuvenated with ritual as it is worn by the elements. This is not to say that it is without scars, that history does not also burden it. The gash in the emptiness that it is hard not to see as both the culmination of a conquest and a new iteration of it. 
	"Hardscrabble (ORIGIN early nineteenth century): place thought of as the epitome of barrenness." The hardscrabble labor of massive machinery has hollowed out the land. It has overlaid the history of the place with a hole, which now epitomizes it. It is as if the surrounding land were under obligation to mirror the emptiness of the excavation in its own expanse. What else is a mine, other than a taking of the earth for tabula rasa? "(ORIGIN Latin) 'scraped tablet,' denoting a tablet with the writing erased."
 	What else? An extracting. Here, iron is extracted. From here, iron is exported to build other places. The steel-girded cities of China rise from here. Also from here rare earth metals go into handheld devices, magnetizing the everywhere and nowhere-in-particular of the communication web that instantly links the cities of China to their counterparts in Australia and across the globe. Gold goes too, to give psychological ballast to the global financial markets whose own over-networked weightlessness cyclically whirligigs into free fall. From the point of view of the everywhere and nowhere-in-particular of what goes from here, the hole below of the plane's eye view is the eye of a rising storm of global activity. This is not just a metaphor. Not far from here coal is also massively extracted, fueling unbridled industry and climate change. The bright economic outlook of the outback mine is a distant twinkle in the Sandy eye of our "once in a century storms," which of late come every five years.
	How, the airborne artist asks, can she claim a connection to this land? 
	An immigrant from Asia, she is not of this land's history, nor of its erasing. She is neither indigenous nor a settler. She does not excavate with massive machinery, nor speculate using the abstract instruments of capital. She does, however, carry a cell phone.
	What are the things that connect us?