One of the things she did here (there) was to begin collecting. Collecting things normally plays on a strong sense of origins. The thing collected is a token of attachment to the place and time of its origin, of which it stands as the enduring trace, carefully identified and labeled. The attachment to the collected thing is to an enduring out of its place after its time. The investment in the collected thing, in present time, care and attention, in anticipation and temporarily satisfied longing, draws one in to this. There is something inherently melancholic and nostalgic about collecting. It shares this characteristic with all endeavors playing on a sense of origin. Is not any original sense of identified-labeled belonging, whether to a nation or an ethnicity or even a city or a neighborhood, or again to a gender or an age or a stage of life, a melancholic-nostalgic attachment to enduring traces? Are these not ways in which we collect ourselves? Ways of regaining our composure in the essentially out-of-place? For an origin is by nature out of place – forever at a distance in the always-before of this after-time. Like birth.
	Does identified belonging really answer the question, what am I doing here? Or does it simply apply a bittersweet balm to having been born?
	For one whose here is the eye of a storm of impossible belonging, collecting things does not provide the same bittersweet balm. But there is a certain power in the present-time care and attention, the anticipation and temporarily satisfied longing, that comes with collecting. The artist will collect. But she will not collect things. She will collect nothings. 
	Soon after her arrival in Australia, she begins a practice that will continue throughout her artistic life. As she makes her way through the city, she keeps an eye out for "naughts": discarded little things in the shape of a zero, like the plastic ring from a soda bottle top. Little zeros: the shape of emptiness. They lie where they are found because they have come to naught, from where no one cares, discarded. They have been emptied from an anonymous passerby's quotidian cargo. Dumped, without so much as a passing thought. As litter, the place they occupy is tenuous. They have no claim to place other than the unadorned fact that this is where they happen to be, for no good reason. This is not the same as being out of place. It is being in a place without an alibi.
	Hollowed out by their own shape, naughts have none of the charm or personality of the fully collectable. Having no meaningful origin, their happening to be in the particular place they are found betokens no attachment. They are traces, but of nothing of note. The artist does not collect them in the key of melancholy and nostalgia. They are kept, but not cherished. They are not for display. They are not for decoration. They are not an indulgence in a trash aesthetic. They are there, simply to be kept. And counted. Counting: the most minimal activity to which a collection lends itself. 
	There is no meaning to counting. There is only procedure. The procedure involves going back over a collected-together plurality of things, in an abstract movement through the neutral space of number. All that counts is the bare fact of this many having come together. Counting registers little nothings in a belonging-together as tenuous as their individual claim to place.