The emptiness of the artist's little nothings clears a way for her. She, like them, is without alibi in the city into which she has landed. The knowledge that whenever she ventures out more collectable nothings will have fallen in whatever path she takes becomes a lure to go out and move through the city. Her movements are not purposeful, for example in the way a worker's beelining to the office is. They are not exactly purposeless, either. The lure of the naughts yields a third way: a direction without a purpose. The direction is not toward any particular point. It is toward venturing out, and passing through. Just being out, in movement through the city, with a heightened attentiveness to what may present itself, but no agenda. "Just nosing," she calls it. Or in Malaysian pidgin, "looksee looksee."
	She thought she was looking for her place in Australia. But what she has found through her nothings is a way. She now has a way of being where she lives, far from origins, unfixed in place, undivided by overlaid identity and the divisive historical weight of assigned meanings with which it bears down. She has an alternative to the impossibility of setting down roots: holding herself afloat in her moving through. She has a way of moving in place, looking, seeing, nosing along with a calmly expectant openness to what might fall into her path. 
	It could be anything, really. For when you are venturing out nosing for naught, with openness and attentiveness, something else is just as good. The expression of the passenger next to you on the train catches your eye. That's something. Where are they going? What ephemeral musing or mortal concern just flitted across their face? And: why for heaven's sake are they dressed like that? There's something else. You get off the train and a motled sunshine falls across a façade, dappling it, fleetingly, with patches of light and shadowed reminders of the building standing across the way. Strange, how what stands so stolidly in place takes account in itself for what stands away across from it. What more distant places might likewise, if less visibly, cross into this place? In what dappled connection at a distance does this place cross back to them? Could this criss-cross, this mutual refraction, this reciprocal taking into account, be what place is really all about, more than any proper standing or being here by right?