The edginess, the artist says, is somewhat addictive. From nothing has come an intensity of inhabiting otherwise. Art without alibi – or art as the alibi for having no alibi for being where you are – becomes a veritable life-style, a way of life. This art of no reason gives a reason for living, one that is no less effective for being empty. The no-reason is: to keep on keep on going, always on to somewhere else, in attentive openness to the surprise of relation. This is not a justification. It is a journey whose continuing is its own end.
	The edginess comes from the same place the procedure's power comes from. Art as a means without end for re-tracing life's happenstances in a minor key of joy and emergent sensibility has no predesignated style. The artist does not think of herself as having a medium, and says that she does not work from materials. She works from passing through. This makes her hard to place. It is not clear what category she belongs to as an artist. The impossibility of belonging threads through every stage of the journey. She is never cured of it. 
	But the art of no reason is nevertheless curative, in a way. For minor joys are oddly not incompatible with major horrors. Horrors like mines making a tabula rasa of someone else's history and meanings. You are fully aware of the horror, you understand its grounding, you have studied its history, you don't deny or neglect or paper over any of that. You don't empty other people's place, or take their place and speak your concepts and analysis on their behalf. You hold your tongue and empty your own relation to place: in order to retrace it, attentive to emergent connections. The horrors and injustices of a place are part of what creates the conditions for that encounter. They are not in any way neglected. They are refracted. In a sense, the ground rises with the background. It is a contributing factor in the artistic retracing. It is re-presented, horror and all, in some manner of trace, along with the small epiphany that emerged in contrast to it. Without it, the small epiphany would have nothing with which to contrast its little joy. Art, practiced as a procedure of living, is an affect-conversion apparatus. It extracts a modicum of affirmative intensity from all that weighs a place down. It's a bit like a mining operation itself: a telluric extraction and refinement of what is found on the ground. Unlike the mine, it does not simply mirror its own emptiness. It does not hollow out the land. It refracts its complexity in an emergent minor key. It empties, to otherwise refill. It applies no balm. In its own little way, it intensifies.