Needless to say, the artist is highly skeptical of the concept of site-specific art. The clarity of her procedure requires clearing the site. "The clarity," she specifies, "comes from the action, and not the space cleared."iii
	To clear the sites of her art, she ventures out into them without alibi, not knowing what she will find, and without any preconceived notion of what form the forming artwork will eventually take. The journey is full of stories, styles, historical frameworks and material textures. None of these, however, will be what the artwork is about. For the stories, styles, frameworks and materials, she uses an action word rather than an indicator of linguistic reference: triggers. There is no "about" here. It's simply not about. It's round-about the place. It's all in the activity, in the moving through and back and forth, and what the action triggers into taking form.
	Mindful not to be on about, the artist often proceeds by indirection. For example, she is going to Venice, so goes to the outback. She is drawn to the mines without yet knowing how they might possibly relate to what she will end up doing as the Malaysian Australian representative to the Biennale. She returns to Sydney, and her collections of small epiphanies, with more to add. She takes her curator on her alternative tour of Port Dickson. Still more additions. The count rises. The ground also rises. This latest reencounter with Malaysia, as always, triggers things from the past, including from the family and social histories she worked so hard to unrule herself of. She is drawn to a kind of Hindu bronze ritual vessel, and collects that drawing-in. She is drawn into a certain style of chair she associates with her grandfather, and collects a number of them together. She remembers the small epiphany from her childhood of realizing that after they fell the leaves of a certain local tree, called the sea jumbu, dappled themselves with abstract patterns that she felt  anticipated modern art. On an earlier trip, she ventured round the town nosing about, seeking, talking to people, and finally found a still-living specimen, halfway down a cliff to the sea. Talk about looking over a cliff. 
	Small epiphany: Here Art Grows on Trees. Nice title – but what does it mean? Wrong question again. It's not easy to keep the wrong questions from coming back. That's why procedure is so important. Think trigger. What does this trigger? That's the right question. But that question cannot be answered in isolation. What  the jambu triggered in place, over the cliff, is one little thing. But what it might trigger displaced, its drawing-in brought together with that of other collected elements of the artwork in formation, is another question entirely. When all of them come together in Venice to inhabit together their mutual displacement, it is certain that very different things will trigger. The drawings-in will mutually refract, as each other's elsewheres. Outback Australia, urban Australia, peninsular Malaysia, and Venice will cross to singular effect, all depending on the way in which they are reexpressively brought together. To retrace places with their elsewheres is not to squarely reproduce what happened on site. It is to obliquely renew takings-account of each other, remaking their relation take place here. 
	Remaking a relation of mutual taking-account is very different from accounting-for. It is not done from the subject position of the artist. It is transpositional, triggering in-between,  round-about, and back and forth. It does not satisfy the criteria of any conventions of commentary-about, illustration, or analysis.