The problem is finding a right way: one that does not bring back the wrong questions, that avoids triggering responses in others that return to conventions of commentary-about. The artist confesses that she struggles with the urge to just dump together the things she has gleaned from her art procedure for living, in the same way her little nothings were unceremoniously dumped. After all, her little nothings led her to her small epiphanies. Won't a second dumping do the same for the visitors to the artwork?
	She realizes that it is not likely to work that way. The ground of the artspace and the ground of the outback are not the same, nor are the sidewalks of Sydney, Port Dickson and Venice. This means that the conditions for an effectively intensifying rising of a refractive background signaling its contrast to ground are different in every case. What happens in each case is less site-specific than relationship-specific. You have to start from prior relation to remake relation. There are conventionalized, identified, labelled relations already everywhere embedded in place. This is no less true – in some ways perhaps even more true – of art sites. These existing conditions of embedded relation fixed in place are what must be cleared away, to make way for triggering otherwise. Although the emergently triggered relation is not reducible to the ground of its triggering, and is not effectively contained in the definition of the site, every detail of the site, the smallest characteristic of the lay of the land, can become a contributing factor to the emergence that happens in the clearing. Or, it can become a contributing factor to a swerve back into the "about," with all the identifying and categorizing and assumed overlay of meanings and officialized versionings of history that come with that. The lay of the land must be taken account of. To dump is not enough. The lay of that land must be grappled with.
	In the continuing process, as in its punctual sejour in an art site, it is necessary to make to place. That's an odd way that the artist has of putting it, but it makes immediate sense if you think of making to place on the model of singing to tune. Singing to tune involves following a piece of music, attentive to its composition, just as making to place involves passing through, following the lay of the land, attentive to its features. When you sing to a tune, you don't have to slavishly follow it. You can vary it, adding your own embellishments. The same is true of making to place. You can vary place with your passing. The analogy starts to break down when the place is an art place where a number of makings to place are slated to come together. It's a bit like singing to more than one tune at the same time. How do keep it from degenerating into a cacophony? Where do you find the middle ground between site-nonspecific cacophony and being on "about"?