These essays are not "about." They are writings-with. Each arose from a fortuitous encounter tantamount to a capture: a latching to an alien creative practice of my own process of philosophical concept-making, at very particular points of contact. Points of contact is not the best way of putting it because it connotes two already made forms rubbing up against each other and sharing something of their contents across a boundary. What I am talking about is at a very different level, the level at which things are in the making: where what they can do and where they can go is a pressing, open question. This is the level of constitutive problems, using the word "problem" in the positive sense of a galvanizing tension imparting an impetus for a process to take shape. A constitutive problem energizes a coming trajectory with formative potential, but not without also lacing it with imperatives acting as enabling constraints that will orient its unfolding without predefining it. A region of problematic overlap is a better way of putting it than a point of contact. Two processes, strangers to each other, can intimately overlap in a problematic that is constitutive for both, without coming in any way to resemble each other in form, or even sharing content. Practices do not share content. They fashion their own, reciprocal to their singular taking-form. They may perturb each other or attune, interfere or resonate, cross-fertilize or contaminate, but each will ultimately incorporate the formative potential in their own problematic way, so that the overlap is also a forking. This is what Deleuze and Guattari call aparallel evolutioni: the intimate art of keeping a formative distance.
My own work has been in aparallel evolution with the three practitioners written-with in this book for varying durations. In the case of the first two, the duration is long, very long. A chance introduction to pioneering digital architect Greg Lynn in the mid-1990s riveted my attention to the problem of the abstract as a practical issue. The virtual, in Proust's formula taken up by Deleuze, is "abstract yet real." So what, practically speaking, is its mode of reality? How can a design practice avail itself of that reality not only as a resource, but as a force, for its own creative process? Given that the digital is in no way synonymous with the virtual, understood in terms of formative force, what exactly is the relationship between them? In what way does the dynamic form in which a design process incorporates the abstract reality of the virtual as a creative growth factor change what we can think and say about form-generation? How does it change what we mean by form in the first place? What is the relationship between a design process that alters what we mean by form and the design products that emerge as a result of that alteration? May a process availing itself of the reality of the virtual contrive to carry the charge of the virtual into its product? In what (dyamic) trace-form? Under what conditions may a product convey into the world at large the abstract but real formative force from whose impetus it emerged, from within a particular precinct of practice? Thinking this knot of questions through Lynn's architectural design practice, goaded on by his rallying cry of "animate form," impelled my work in directions it might not otherwise have taken, enabling it to gestate concepts it might not otherwise have birthed, as it followed his process in aparallel accompaniment over many years, punctuated by intermittent discussions and crossings of paths as well as more concerted overlaps such as a two-week studio residency at his offices in Venice, California. I cannot purport that the encounters inflected Lynn's trajectory in any way. Aparallel evolution is an asymmetrical affair by nature. That the influence remained virtual on one side in no way detracts from the abstract reality of the processual encounter.
In the case of Montreal-based digital media artist Rafael Lozano-Hemmer, the inflection has at times gone in both directions, and the duration is even longer, beginning at the end of the 1980s. My early work on the politics of everyday fear formed part of the background for one of Lozano-Hemmer's works, discussed in chapter 2. A young Lozano-Hemmer had actually had a hand in the fear project as a member of the collective that formed around the project in its embryonic stages. Later work of mine on amodal perception factored into a subsequent project of Lozano-Hemmer's, also analyzed here. Collaborations happened.ii The problem that Lozano-Hemmer's work crystallized for mine concerned the distinction between interaction and relation. Here was an "interactive artist" vehemently repudiating that label, insisting that what he was really doing was "relational architecture." And here was an artist whose early projects were held up as a paragon of site-specific art claiming that they were anything but site-specific, even as they occupied the public square and drew materially on the history of the place. And here was a pioneer of electronic art who never defined his own process in terms of the technological medium of the digital. What is "relationship-specific" art, as Lozano-Hemmer also calls it, as opposed to site-specific art? What is a practice of urban art that takes-place locally, but refuses to be confined to that locality? What does the taking-place of relationship-specific art say, not only about the concepts of site-specificity and locality, but also of medium-specificity? How does it challenge the very nature of what we take a medium to be? Another knot of questions, another aparallel accompaniment, more goadings and gestatings, inflections and conceptions, in the processual intimacy of a formative distance. Where the overlap with Lynn's work brought me into an encounter with architecture, through Lozano-Hemmer the encounter with architecture opened out into the urban environment and its relationship-specific overspilling of its own locality.
With Malaysian-Australian photographer and installation artist Simryn Gill, the duration was more constrained: basically, a month. But it was a month that offered an opportunity to make the kind of processual fellow-traveling I had experienced with Lynn and Lozano-Hemmer a planned practice, distilled into a procedure suited to the time-frame available. I proposed a series of recorded discussions where Gill would describe her process, what moves it, and what concepts she mobilizes in order to move with it. Key terms would surely stand out in the discussions, proposing themselves as formulae: terms that both trouble and potentialize the work, standing for problematic nodes around which Gill's practice bestirs itself and takes shape. I would take these constitutive problems up into my own writing, in the exact terms in which Gill articulated them. I would then nudge them into a becoming-philosophical. By that I mean giving them the kind of consistency native to philosophic practice. 
The consistency of a practice is its constitutive texture: the way in which the creative factors entering into its constitution come-together, co-compose, and fuse into the emergence of a produced effect that stands by itself and for itself, in its own manner. Each art practice has a consistency uniquely its own, and the consistency of an art practice is very different from that of a philosophic practice. The consistency of a philosophic practice is defined by the reciprocal presupposition of its component concepts. That is a fancy word for mutual embrace. The work of philosophy is to craft concepts into a weave where each concept has meaning only as a function of the concepts around it – and all the other concepts are around it. Each is implicate in the others, and all the others are implicate in each. In other words, the vocation of philosophy is to invent a systematic holding-together of concepts. This is stranger than it seems at first. "This requirement" of systematic reciprocal presupposition, Whitehead warns, "does not mean that [the concepts] are defina­ble in terms of each other; it means that what is indefina­ble in one such notion cannot be abstracted from its rele­vance to the other notions."iii The conceptual weave is a dynamic open system. Each concept's embrace of the others' relevance amounts to an implicate movement of thought carrying the concept beyond the limit of its own meaning, into the collective texture. The fact that every concept envelops that movement in its own way, and they are all doing it together in concert, makes the system a maximally consistent conceptual expression of thought's capacity to carry itself to the limit of the definable, where it edges into the unthinkable. Thought unbounded – by dint of mutual relevance, taken to the highest power. In the essays that follow, it will be asserted that the "medium" of a practice is the manner of event it occasions. The medium of philosophy, by this definition, is mutual relevance (taken to the limit of the thinkable).
Staging a probematic overlap of a philosophic practice and an art practice leaves neither unscathed. The problematic nodes of the artworking embed enabling constraints in the philosophic writing. These are like proto-conceptual eggs, cysts of coming concepts that hatch alien tendencies in the philosophy whose maturation in the writing propel the philosophizing toward a change in consistency. There can be no application of a conceptual framework: in philosophy, the systematicity is emergent. From this perspective, the status of the art practice for the philosophizing is as the non-philosophical field immanent to philosophy's becoming.iv The problems creatively geared into by the artistic practice as conditioning its own process are transduced into philosophic problems entering into the constitution of a new philosophic expression. Problems leap from one process to another, like jumping genes. From the other side, the status of the philosophic practice for the artworking is as a coming-to-conceptual-expression of proto-concepts already stirring within it and itching to condition its process more fully. The philosophical expression of these constitutive problems can potentially fold back into the art process, and modulate its subsequent adventures. Transduction can go both ways. It wants to go both ways. It is an aparallel evolution: a becoming-different-together, in processual overlap and mutually transformational feedback.
There are risks. The artist will see her words escape from her, into the defiles of philosophy. Her constitutive problems will hatch anew and mutate, then mate with other problems plying the philosophic field. For philosophy is not innocent. It is haunted by its past consistencies. In spite of philosophy's possession by its own past systematizations, it retains a transductive openness. However steeped in its own history, a philosophic practice retains the ability to overlap with constitutive problems belonging to a non-philosophical field. This can only be because the problems were already stirring within it, after its own manner. It was feeling the itch (again, it goes both ways). As Raymond Ruyer said, you can only imitate what you are already almost capable of inventing.v What is at issue is indeed a kind of imitation, a kind of mimcry, where one process inventively takes on the problematic curves of another's incipient gestures. Through this transductive relation, philosophic writing becomes a kind of ventriloquism, in which it is not always certain which one is speaking. That uncertainty was consciously taken on board in the essay on Gill as an enabling constraint. Gill's own words were taken up into the writing in a way that made it impossible to attribute any given formulation unambiguously to one or the other of us. In the leadup to the essay's original publication in the 2013 Venice Biennale catalogue for the Australian Pavillion, this drove the copyeditor mad. An all-out war over pronomial propriety and the owning of speech ensued.
The fact that you can only ventriloquize what you are already almost capable of inventively mouthing means that the processual transduction between art and philosphy can only work if the philosophy already has an appetite for the problems. The philosophy must feel an impetus of its own to incorporate the formative force of the problems into its becoming, as if already carried at its very heart a precursory imprint of the nonphilosophical outside. Under that impetus, as the appetite satisfies itself, the problems unfold into a properly philosophic expression and take on a new consistency – one that might well seem monstrous to the artist. It is in these terms that Deleuze spoke of his relation even to other philosophers (given the absolute singularity of their respective consistencies, philosophical systems are processual outsides to each other, even though they ply the same medium; their community in the same institutional discipline is a false association; what they belong to is only their own passage to the limit of the thinkable, in processual overlap with the nonphilosphical fields for which they have an inventive appetite; philosophy as a discipline is a discipline, not philosophy; philosophy is transdisciplinary by its very nature; it not only retains the ability to problematically overlap with non-philosophical fields, it is only on the condition of doing so, in defiance of its disciplinary history, orphaning itself from it, that it lives and breathes). Deleuze, orphan of French philosophy, spoke of wanting to beget a monster with his philosophical interlocutors. But it was essential to him that one they would nevertheless be moved to recognize the ill-begotten as their own mutant offspring. His main concern, he said, was that the philosophers he philosophized from would not be set turning in their graves. In this case, the concern was that the artist, still very much alive and kicking, would not collapse into a heap in the studio. The hope that the creative practitioners whose work I was writing from would still be able recognize themselves in some unthinkable way in the becoming-different of their process as it transduces into philosophy was a guiding concern. In the case of Gill, it was explicitly part of the procedure. We agreed that if she opened herself through the discussion, I would take out from my ill-begotten text anything she couldn't live with. There were things that troubled her, but in the end she affirmed the trouble, and went with the mutation, unheaped. She embraced her own becoming-different – which, after all, is what her art is all about. Even though it was less formalized in the case of Lynn and Lozano-Hemmer, the transductive approach and the concerned ethics of monstrosity it involves were very much a part of those encounters all along.vi
	The risk on the philosophical side is a certain loss of control. As they hatch, the encysted problematic nodes can exert an unexpected pressure on how the conceptual weave evolves. The conceptual tools for their successful texturing are not at the tip of the ventriloquist tongue. Since the initial formulation of the problems is found in the non-philosophical field, bristling with enabling constraints native to that environment, they will carry notional ruguosities that rub the becoming-philosophy in what feels like the wrong way. But the "wrong way" has to be allowed to become relevant, to the limit. This requirement produces more problems. A cascading problematic movement takes hold that sweeps the philosophical writing into turbulent directions it would not have otherwise chosen for itself. The hapless writer finds himself grappling with issues he hadn't anticipated. It is not out of the question that, under the probematic force of the current, he will find himself saying things he never imagined he would say – and perhaps is not even certain he agrees with. But personal belief and ownership of thoughts is not what is at stake. What is at stake is the generation of surprises of thought: the sudden setting into the weave of what was all but unthinkable, finding a foothold for itself in the world where it can exert a force as a goad for further thought and other practices, in follow-on transductions potentially to come.
	In chapter 1, the encounter with Lynn's work cascaded from the problem of the reality of abstraction to the problem of the body. Where is the body in animate form? The question is a common one often raised in a tone of accusation against Lynn's, dismissed as a mere formalism from which the body is absent. The body, however, was a central concern of Lynn's in his writings on architecture of the 1990s. In keeping with the problem of abstraction, this was an abstract body. What ever could that be? And why does the very word "body" disappear from Lynn's vocabulary in the 2000s? Where did it go? The central concern of his designs and writings seems to shift to the surface. Surface, after all, is a squarely (or in this case, curvaceously) architectural concern. What is the relation between body and surface? What else shifts when the body surfaces? The essay strives to follow the vicissitudes of Lynn's evolving practice through these shifts. Since Lynn himself has never enunciated the shifts in so many words, the more concertedly the philosophizing follows his process, the more monstrously it drifts from anything Lynn would ever say. The more problematically overlapped the processes become, the more fork-tongued is the outcome.
	In chapter 2 on Lozano-Hemmer, the problem of the relationship-specific in contradistinction with the site-specific raises the follow-up problem of the status of the historical references, cultural codes, and social conventions activated and played upon in the work. This inevitably raises the issue of language, and of mediation in general. Lozano-Hemmer's work is predicated on the bodily involvement of participants, in an immediacy of shared experience. And yet they speak. Can the language be construed, not as a mediating structure, but as a directly bodily involvement? Is participation, then, an immediation, even in the use of language? If the specificity of what happens is in the relationship, then the event of participation is not confined to the individual body any more than it is confined to the locality. Does that mean that it involves a collective body? What sort of thing is that? Is there a transindividual level of language corresponding to it? If we say yes to these questions, how does that change what we understand by culture? By the social? Is there difference between them? If so, what is it? And what is their relation to the political? Thorny, forky problems all. In the case of Lozano-Hemmer, it seemed more feasible to attack these problems through an intensive engagement with a limited number of works from a particular period, rather than following the full length of the processual arc of the work, as was attempted for Lynn. The chapter, as a result, does not reflect the full breadth of Lozano-Hemmer's prolific and ever-ramifying creative production.
	The constitutive problem in chapter 3 on Gill is place. More precisely, it is the inhabitation of place as a translocal practice. Gill might also be said to be practicing an art of the relationship-specific as opposed to the site-specific. The phrase of Gill's taken up to serve as the chapter title, "making to place," says as much: her art is not a making in place, but a making to place, in the way we say that we tap to a rhythm. In Gill's case, however, the process hones down to focus on a single body, its solitudes and forays. Here, the thorniness is around the notion of identity that is so habitually applied to single-body solitudes and forays, as well as the role of biography as constructive of identity. For a practitioner of philosophic transduction who systematically errs on the side of pre-personal and even impersonal intensities, this could be very problematic. The artist's practice and her discourse about her practice are anchored in her biography. But then … her stated concern is precisely not to anchor her work in her biography. It is to find processual freedom for her work by "floating" her identity. Her working through her biography is in order to float it beyond itself. The alternative would be to be a slave to the historical and geopolitical determinants, and the way they pin an externally constructed identity to a body and its life's path. History and geopolitics and the way they biographically determine an identity have to be controverted – converted by the artworking into factors for becoming. They have to be counteractualized as enabling constraints for creative freedom. This must be done in a way that charges the individual body with the force of the collective, minus its power to fully determine in line with its history: with a singular twist. This twist on the problem of biography delineates a problematic region of overlap between the appetite of the philosophy and the process of the art that the essay has to work out in its own manner through the conceptual taking-form it stages.
	No, it's not "about." It's not about Greg Lynn, Rafael Lozano-Hemmer, or Simryn Gill, as biographical entities. It's not about architecture, digital art, or installation art, as disciplines or genres. It's certainly not about art history: how those biographies embed themselves in and contribute to the progressive development of their disciplines. At no time do I perform the gesture, considered de rigueur in academic discourse, of "situating" the practices I encounter with respect to these extrinsic determinant frameworks. Never do I judge the aesthetic quality or social/political value of the work according to external criteria. And when I've said "I" in this introduction, it's not with pronomical propriety and a claim to ownership. It's not about any of that.
It's "with." It's the "with" of processual fellow-traveling, in the mode of immanent critique as I understand it: the aparallel evolution of processes entering into mutually constitutive overlap, the better to transductively diverge again to further their own singularity. If it's about anything, it's about becoming-different-together in a relationship-specific movement courting the limit of the thinkable.
In a word, this is a speculative undertaking. On the philosophical side, it is when the conceptual texture reaches the limit of its consistency, where the mutual relevance of the concepts reaches a pitch of reciprocal presupposition, that the working-through of the constitutive problems is at its intensest and the movement of thought returns  to its own singularity. Each concept is carried beyond the limit of its own meaning, into the collective texture of what is indefinable in the others, and all together. At this collective limit, they flicker out of the overlap with the nonphilosophical practices with which they have worked in symbiosis, to resonate intensely together, in a fit of self-reference. In that intensity of self-reference, the descriptive, or exo-referential, function of the writing blinks out. 
At these points, I can already hear the reader protesting, but the work doesn't actually do that! Perhaps it doesn't. But it is no less true that it has released the aparalleled potential for it: the proof being that it has come out in the writing. If the writing has been successful, the speculative, as such, takes effect in it. Philosophically, that is what it is ultimately about.