The artist has a vocabulary for talking about the enabling conditions for refracting places in this way. She refers to a certain loosening of ties to the real, by which she says she means undoing the accepted sense of the "right" way to be in the world. This loosening of accepted ties is a mode of extraction from place. The extraction segues into a mode of abstraction. The non-site specificity of art-making to place is by nature an abstraction from place. It necessitates a loosening of ties to the consensual "reality" in place.
	To keep the making to place sufficiently abstract, you have to create an artificial space, one without the usual constraints. But not without constraints of its own. There is no such thing as a place without constraints. Existing art spaces are highly artificial already. They are in a way pre-abstracted, full of embedded abstract constraints that are so familiar they are easy to overlook. The artificiality of the places of art is naturalized by over-familiarity, ingrained expectations, and many a tendentious overlay of meaning and identifying/labeling history. That is why it is necessary to peel them: to re-artificialize them. To make them live up to their artificiality and the living power of abstraction they are sometimes capable of housing, providing they don't have their top on too tight. Otherwise there is precious little chance for a lifebow to form. The emergent effect is more likely to be a knowing nod, or weary sigh.
	"Housing": not the right word at all. It connotes a domestic space. The art place, arrived at from this direction, is not an analogue of the domestic place. What it is certainly not "about" is domesticating the horrible wild world out there. No balms allowed. Domestic place, as it is conventionally lived, is all about balming. It is just as necessary to peel the domestic away from itself as it is to lift the lid on site-specific consensual realities – the accepted public sense of the "right" way to the live here. Don't take refuge from the public in the domestic. Float the difference. Refract them in each other. Lifebow between them.
	The art of making to place is the art of knowing "how to empty one's world" of just this kind of division. Not just the division between the public/domestic, but those having to do with national, ethnic and gender identities, and age and stage of life labels. 
	It should be clear by  now that this is not the kind of "empty" that is simply the opposite of full, or its contradiction. It is the liquid kind that "floats" an effect. 
Making something out of nothing. Order out of emptiness, through the labour of doing, redoing, and redoing again. Because. It’s as if all of life is in that because, which stops just there and doesn’t go any further. An unattached reason. A floating specificity: whimsical, empty and very full. I have been able to call the actions of this urge ‘art.’iv
Art of no reason: just because. Because I need to stay afloat. And I can only do that with my full potentials in place, undivided, with all of life in it.