Art for the artist is a procedure for living, for staying afloat to the fullest of her potential. Yet she professes to be extremely uncomfortable with any biographical framing of her artistic journeying. Is there life beyond biography? Wrong question. Again. Ask instead: is one's own biography liveable? Not with the constraints that come with being so identified. A case in point is the artist's complicated relation to her own official name.
	Malay Moslems' naming practice is based on the Arabic tradition. A person's given name is followed by a patroym composed of a vocable indicating heritage (similarly to the Arabic bin) plus the father's given name. The names of Malaysians of Tamil descent, who form the majority in the Malaysian Indian community, are similarly structured. Most Malaysian Indians of Punjabi descent, however, like Malaysian Chinese, have patrilineal surnames, or family names. After independence, efforts were made to rationalize names. In practice, this boiled down to ensuring that kinship with the father was registered in the names of individuals of all ethnicities, as a patronym or a surname depending on the case. This impulse, the artist feels, was primarily an inheritance of the British colonial obsession with labeling and categorizing. But it would not be unreasonable to speculate that the inherited colonial impulse was reinforced by Islamic cultural priorities regarding gender and family that were being reaffirmed as part of the postcolonial nation-building project. Oddly, the fact that Malaysian Indians of Punjabi descent already had surnames did not register. It is as if the difference between Punjabi and Tamil naming practice was not perceivable in its specificity, but only as a marker of minority lack. Malaysian Indians were lumped together, with differences within the community appearing as an irregularity in need of smoothing over. After all, an Indian is an Indian, for all intents and divisive national unification purposes. The relevant division for those purposes was Indian versus Chinese versus Malay. So the artist's name was rationalized. The authorities took her father's three names, first, middle, and last, and declared them a new composite family name. This name was then added to the three the artist already had. Simryn Kaur Gill Ajaib Singh Gill. That is what it sounds like to be taken for a lump. This is rationalization, fully Stated. Talk about overlay! Colonialism overlaid upon State nationalism converging with patriarchical cultural values overlaid upon half-recognized ethnic identity. Overzealous labeling, taken to the point of redundancy. Simryn Gill Gill? Biographical overkill.
	But is not every biography overkill, in one way or another? Even when one is free to self-label? It still loops into redundancy: I-me-mine. Even a biography rightfully inscribed in its community of identity is redundant: I-you-we. Who "we"? Who are you lumping in with that I of yours? Do I-and-I have to mirror you? Are we under obligation to mirror the emptiness of your excavation of your biography in our expanse? Are you to we as a "mine" is to the open land of community?
	Take the biographical roof off. De-lump. Peel, abstract, refract, float, intensify. Now that's living.
	Is there a contradiction in making a move beyond biography using a biographical detail, and in an essay that started on a biographical note, no less? Not at all. To see it as a contradiction would be to mistake biography for life, and the personal for the world. To live beyond biography is to relate to biographical detail as you would a sacred paving stone or the ring from a soda bottle top: as a trigger for a movement of expression, in the world and of the world.