It is a working assumption of the architectural practice of Greg Lynn that the instruments of design are not incidental to the creative process. They are not neutral tools through which a conceptual program passes on its way to realization. “Throughout the history of architecture, descriptive techniques have impacted the way in which architectural design and construction have been practiced.”i The tools contribute to the definition of the trade, partially determining its outcomes. Their practical action cannot be entirely subtracted from the final design form.
	The implications of this are wider than generally recognized. The means of creative production cannot be relegated to the status of outside elements belonging to biographical or historical “context.” If the means of production enter into the definition of the product, they are nothing less than factors of creation. The “instruments” of an artistic discipline are internal variables of the creative process. They are generative factors, intrinsic to artistic form: formal co-conceivers. Face it: no achieved architectural design has ever leapt fully-formed from the Chronos-skull of a gloriously autonomous creative “author.” An architectural idea meanders through many a channel of technique, each of which inflects it, before pouring into the concrete ocean of the surrounding city. The most static of built forms embodies a fluvial movement: of its own making. In progress, a building’s only context is its own formative process – to which nothing with which it streams is extrinsic. Only after it is constructed does a design idea stand still enough to have an external context. Before, it has only growth factors.
	The question of form alluviates into one of formation: form generation.  “Morphogenesis” it is: enter process (check your God’s head at the sluice gate).
	Lynn points out that there is an inherent abstractness to the most basic instruments of architecture, which has always maintained a privileged relation to geometry, and will necessarily continue to do so. Architecture's traditional focus on the classical geometry of the basic Euclidean figures and Platonic solids has had to share the lime-light in recent years with topology. Topological design techniques had to wait for the computer for their full deployment. First introduced into architectural practice in the late 1980s, as the cost of computing-power came down their use became increasingly widespread, if not ubiquitous.ii For Lynn, a pioneer in topological design techniques, this development cannot be neutral to the concept of architecture. He exhorts designers interested in rethinking the history and changing shape of their discipline to attend to their instruments. This requires a willingness to engage with the abstractness of the computer-assisted design space: its specifically topological abstractness. Yet more specifically, its topological abstractness as accessed by animation software of the kind used in film, as opposed to the traditional CAD used to digitize the familiar architectural drafting process. All of this entails a radical change in perspective.