Rather than treating discrete forms composed of isolatable elements, topology deals with continuums. Topology will take a traditional geometric form, say a sphere, and torture it. It will twist it and turn it, stretch it and compress it, until it turns into something else entirely, say a horse-shoe. The topological figure itself is neither the sphere nor the horse-shoe. It is the continuity between them. The continuity is of a transformation. The transformation is a deformation. The Euclidean form you end up with is secondary to the deformation. It arises as an effect of a transformational process. Topology concerns continuities of deformation more directly than static form.
	You could, of course, reverse the process and regain the sphere. Regained, it no longer appears as the point of origin it might be taken for. It is now an effect as well, of the deformation from the horse-shoe. It has been sucked from its apparent position of Platonic pre-eminence into the same continuum, of which all traditional form can now seen to be derivative.
	There is no reason to stop there. You can always continue the continuum. You could go on deforming in either direction, past the demoted sphere or the tortured horse-shoe. You could twist and turn some more, stretch and compress, on to any number of other forms. The thing is: they all belong to the same topological figure. They are all effects mutually included in the same transformation. Their relation to each other is one of mutual inclusion in one and the same process. The process itself is their mutual inclusion. It is the continuum that sucks them in, one and all. There is another word for “mutual inclusion.” The relation of the overall topological figure to any of the forms that can be extracted from it is that of immanence.
	The word “extraction” is important. You can only get something particular out of the ongoing transformation by wrenching it from its immanence in that process. The topological figure is in principle endless. It could just as well go on forever, generating an infinite number of forms. To end up with any particular form, you have to extract it from that ongoing. You have to stop the process. A classical geometric form is a topological station.
	Considered as a stationary effect of the topological transformation from which it is extracted, the classical Euclidean form will be seen to bear traces of deformation. It may be seen as expressing in static trace-from the dynamic immanence from which it derived.
	The topological figure may be thought of as the form of all the forms that express it. But it is not a “form” in the same capacity as they. They are forms of expression. It is a form of transition. If the topological figure is not in any of the particular forms that stand out from it, then it can only be in-between them. It has only transitional reality. It is a space of pure transition.
	This is a decidedly odd space. Outside any of its stations (in which it is outside of its processual self) it has only twists and turns and stretches and compressions. That is to say, it has no shape of its own. It is defined by vectors of transformation rather than figural components. In addition, it is unbounded. It can go on endlessly, in any of the three dimensions of Euclidean space and the two dimensions of time (being reversible). Further, it can be zoomed up or down. It has no inherent scale. Being endless, shapeless, unbounded, and scaleless, it cannot be said to have position. Being endless, shapeless, unbounded, scaleless, and positionless, it cannot constitute a univalent type. It includes any number of geometric types. It mutually includes them: it is hypertypological.
	Its stations, the classical Euclidean forms that can be extracted from it, do belong to a type or class of geometric entities. The sphere is a discrete member of the set of spheres: a particular instance of its ideal class. The topological transformation doesn’t subsume its formal expressions under an ideal type. Rather, it effects them. In crowds. It proliferates them. Classical Euclidean forms are included in the overall topological figure in the sense that they populate its process. Their mutual inclusion is their population of the same generative process. That transformation has no invariant features. Having no shape that is proper to it, it has no figural properties. It has no properties except the plastic parameters its own continuous inclusion (of the de-form).iii 
	Another way of saying this is to say that the topological figure is utterly singular: wholly and only its own process. It is a singular populated by particulars. So it is a multiple singular. Having no properties or invariant features, you would also have to characterize it as in some way generic. The topological figure is a strange figure unlike the usual logical entities with which we are in the habit of thinking. It is a multiple singular-generic.
	It gets even stranger when you consider that although it is unbounded, it is not unlimited. I have referred at several points to the “same” topological figure. Given its anomalous, untypical nature, how do you tell when it is no longer itself? The answer was staring at us from the beginning: the identity of a topological figure is defined by its continuity. Cut it, and it ceases to be itself. Puncture it, and it is not what it used to be. For example, if you take the all-suffering sphere and punch a hole through it, you get a torus or tire-shape. You can twist and turn and stretch and compress the torus and get a coffee-cup. You have entered a different topological space inhabited by a different population of forms. You have a new multiply-singular generic teaming with members of the ideal classes of coffee-cups and tires.
	It is important to note that the limit is not a formal feature. It is an event – an accident befalling the transformation. Like the figure itself, the limit is durational. Meaning: it is also shapeless, scaleless, and positionless. It cuts the topological figure off in a vague space of its own process. Like an atom of continuity floating in the void. Where is it in that space? Once again, it is not in any one of the forms expressing it. It passes through them all. Between any two classifiable forms populating it are stretches of formal mutation. But the topological figure as such is not in those stretches either. If you stop the process in-between, you get a mutant Euclidean form. But even in the mutant, the topological transformation, in its process, its continuity, has already passed on. It is in no particular station or transition. It is irretrieveably recessive. Wherever it is seen to be, it has already passed. It is formally elusive. Not only logical or abstract, but always effectively elsewhere: virtual. Its transitional reality is a virtual reality.
	Now if you ask what space two different topological figures share, you’d have to imagine atoms of continuity in the same virtual void. But lacking scale or position, they couldn’t be spatially distinct strictly speaking. It’s a misnomer to call their mutual inclusion a “space.” Although in their immanence they are not spatially distinct, they are still differentiated. The image you end up with is of tirelessly (and coffee-cuplessly) differentiating atoms of continuity in a state of virtual superposition. Like dynamic monads swirling about in the same animated abstractness. 
	Characterizing the topological as I have, there is no choice but to say that if the figure is or is in a space, it is an absolute space of formal transformation: positionless; unclassifiable and therefore incomparable; only in its own ever-recessive process; pure immanence. It is perhaps best to call it an absolute movement instead of an absolute space, given its vanishingly durational nature.
Infinite and unbounded ...
Unbounded but limited ...
Limited but absolute ...
Abstract and real (because effective) ...
Virtual.
Process.