It is easy to see the fascination this might exert in a field like architecture, whose practitioners traditionally valorize static form, typologically considered, and the concretization of an exacting program. And here you have an utterly strange logical creature that is all deformation and movement and vaguely recedes into the most ungraspable of  realms. If you have a contrarian streak, or if you’re just plain curious, you gotta love it.
	Lynn loves it. There is a palpable sense of joy and even abandonment in his discussions of topology.iv Yet love it as you might if you want to design with it you have to figure out how to instrumentalize it. You have to domesticate the beast to some extent. Lynn unironically regards his topologically-trained computer as a not entirely house-trained “pet” introducing a degree of “wildness” into the designer’s “domestic habits.”v When you instrumentalize the topological creature, you find yourself loving your instrument. This is one of the things that stands out most in Lynn’s design practice. He enters wholeheartedly into a relationship with his tools. He joyously embraces what are traditionally considered incidentals, mere practicalities, and welcomes them to the life, and heart, of architecture. As we will see, this embrace extends from the incidentals to the outside: to what are usually considered constraints on architectural design, or even downright obstacles. That is how the many extra-instrumental things an historian of architecture might see as external “contextual” influences are apt to appear to the practicing architectural author. Obstacles: all that cluttery stuff out there that leaves unsightly sedimentary traces in the purely conceived forms of authorial prerogative. Dirty little things, like zoning, budgets, prevailing tastes, preservation movements, the weather, engineering considerations, clients with an irritating tendency to have preferences, gravity, people who live or work in buildings, so annoyingly-often in ways contrary to their program. Messy little things, like the world.
	Architecture, for Lynn, is affirmative. It will embrace its incidentals and its outside. In other words, it will be attracted to its own limits. Like the topological figure, the identity of architecture will describe itself as an endless movement to the limit. Its identity will occur to it, as a limit-event – deferred. Like the topological figure, architecture will affirm itself as its own continuing deformation; as absolutely its own continuous variation. It will affirm its process, as a work in progress. It will still be the “same” discipline, generically speaking. Because it won’t be cut off, from the world at large or from its own past processings. Lynn makes no self-aggrandizing claims to the “revolutionary,” “radical,” or “avant-garde.” To those in the early years who greeted his technology-happy practice with mutterings of “anti-architecture” or the “death of architecture” he calmly responds: no, it continues. Sorry, no apocalypse here. Just the same multiply singular generic, going on. Something architectural is doing, although you will never know what it is to your exacting satisfaction (its identity deferred, by the very doing of it).
	“Like” the topological figure ... Lynn embraces a becoming-topological of architecture. As they say, you become what you love. (Pets have their dangers.)
	Much of the uneasiness that surrounded Lynn’s work has precisely to do with the affirmative approach by which the architect enters a zone of indistinction with his or her instruments. Lynn’s work aroused a tremendous amount of anxiety and even anger over what was repeatedly characterized as an ‘over-enthusiatic’ and ‘uncritical’ embrace of the computer. No less than Peter Eisenman railed that architects like Lynn who adopt an affirmative posture are trying to mire the discipline in their own “cybernetic hallucinations.”vi Nothing so dramatic as an apocalypse. More like an adolescent indulgence. From where Eisenman stands, architecture seems to have gamboled off on a digital acid trip. Where Eisenman stands, interestingly, is in many respects very close. He is himself a pioneer in the use of computerized topological methods in architecture,vii stylistically Lynn’s designs are often considered to echo Eisenman’s, and Eisenman mentored him into the profession. For all of that, in the final analysis Lynn and Eisenman must be seen as inhabiting different worlds, different architectural monads. 
	What most irks Eisenman is precisely what Lynn rejoices in: the processual indistinction between the creature and the creator. Failing to maintain the separation between the powerful new tool of the trade, the trade itself, and the creative artist amounts for Eisenman to a delusional abdication of architectural authorship. To be used responsibly, the computer-assisted topological figure must be kept at arm’s length, on a self-reflective leash. Its proper employment is as a mediating device inserted between the “authorial subject,” the authored architectural “object,” a “receiving subject,” and the “interiority” of architecture as a discipline, in such a way as to maintain their distance from each other even as it brings them into contact.viii  The point for him seems to be that the contact remain external and regulated, so that the authorial subject may “overcome” and “access.” In other words, a critical distance must be maintained. The contact will be a mediated interaction rather than a becoming. Despite protestations to the contrary, walking the topological dog will be a dialectical exercise – a deconstructive ‘dialectic without synthesis,’ as the motto goes. Architecture will include its outside only as “signified”— as already “written” into its interiority prior to any interaction. The outside is understood as a signifying “discourse” that has always already left “traces” on the inside anterior to any event. The anteriority of writing is used to deconstruct the interiority of the discipline – dramatically, as an overcoming assertion of subjective “autonomy” (from “history,” from the “social,” from “repressed memory”). By Derridean sleight, Freud’s “mystic pad” firmly in hand, the architectural master can have his interiority and deconstruct it too. For present purposes, the main point is that in this perspective anything of any import that occurs architecturally will be on the order of signification (if the man with the leash has been known to bark, don’t worry, it’s only metaphorical). 
	As we will see, in Lynn’s practice things are too unregulated and get too involuted to maintain a signifying remove. The whole notion of an “interiority” of architecture falls away in operative, or in Lynn’s vocabulary “performance”-based, continuity with its outside (historical, social, personal, gravitational, whatever). What traces there are, are in effect (following the process).ix Deprived of an anteriority and interiority of architecture, the critical practitioner is barking at the wind: there is nothing to deconstruct. This brings up a point that will be important later. Without a dialectical relation to an “inside,” the “outside” must be integrally reconceived as in some sense absolute, “like” the undistancing figure of continuity through whose vagaries it comes into processual proximity with the “inside.” Which by now is something else again. It is not absolute. Nor is it supplemental in Eisenman’s Derridean sense. It is just plain provisional, nothing more glorious than gerry-rigged. Kiss dramatic mastery goodbye. All the world’s a gambol. Relax, go with the flow. If you can’t master presence, you might as well follow process (and love it). Trace away, mouse happily in hand.x
	If Lynn’s architecture is hard to distinguish from either Eisenman’s or other architects’, modern or contemporary, it will be of little concern for Lynn. If you follow process, architectural differentiation is no longer fundamentally a question of styles and their typology. Lynn has no need to assert his presence on the stylistic level, as a critically distant master of conventional form “overcome.” For him, it is no longer a question of genre but of the generic (the hypertypological).
	Generic process: where topology rather than standard typology is key, conventions of style is as incidental as the computer tool. It is anterior only in the sense that it comes to the design practice as a found object. Style is an incidental or outside element of the architectural design process – unless and until it is mutually included in its ongoing, as one growth factor among others. The architect does not operate from within the tradition but in continual re-encounter with it. The architect is not in the tradition: she is in the world. The worldly design re-encounter is not a dialectical interaction at a signifying remove. It is an unmediated fusional event, sweeping all sides up in the same effective transformation; the same unbounded, unclassified becoming; the same ‘uncritical’ or participatory, proliferative differentiation.xi Architecture’s tradition occurs to it, indistinctly, like its deferred identity (in fact, the perpetual re-encounter with tradition, in the generic, is its deferred identity). Rather than a dialectic without synthesis: an addition without a sum. That might do nicely as the motto for an affirmative architecture.
	Open question: by what device do things incidental and outside come to be included in the process? How, from a gambol, does a building grow? How is the topological beast part-tamed?