It is actually quite simple. The preceding discussion of how the topological figure differs from a classical Euclidean figure was all about deformation. Yet in that discussion there were no deforming forces (other than the force of thought). To instrumentalize topology in mutually inclusive fashion, you simply program deforming forces, with an abstractness and elusiveness equal to the ‘space’ of the figure. In other words, you use the computer to actualize the “absolute dynamic void” that was described earlier as the space or movement of topology. Of course, since that ‘space’ was virtual, absolutely recessive, when you bring it up on screen and actualize it, it is something else. The abstract space of the screen is a virtual double. You have added an analogue of the virtual to the actual. It is very important to be clear about where the virtual isn’t. The virtual isn’t on the screen. It isn’t in the pixels. It isn’t in the code. It isn’t in the machine language. All of these are actual. They are technological “stations.” The virtual is what runs through them. The virtual is what passes when the program boots. It is what happens when all these elements operatively fuse into a running event. 
	What you bring up on screen bears an oddly analogical relation to the virtual passing through it. “Odd,” because the virtual is unclassifiable, comparable only to itself. But in order to program it, you have had to assign it a look, and having a look it inevitably falls into comparison. The virtual is no longer itself to the precise extent to which it resembles how we think of it and, in thoughtful resemblance, becomes comparable to other things. Rendering the virtual is an analogical procedure. However, the analogy produced is essentially without resemblance to its model. Another way of putting it is to say that the resemblance is precisely what is artificially produced.xii You have added to the world a semblance or double (a ‘simulation’) of the virtual through which it oddly returns to itself, on the run, as always self-differing. For the virtual, returned, has passed through and been conditioned by what it isn’t. The traces left by its return –the shapes generated on screen – will record an essential non-resemblance to its ongoing. The shapes are what the virtual looks like after it has passed on. They are its visible wake. They are its optical end-effect. 
	Overall, the process is of a self-differing addition of and to the virtual: virtual proliferation, in the passing. The fact that the virtual is only accessible through analogical procedures, and that for the concept of simulation to be useful it must be borne in mind that simulation is not the virtual but rather simulation is OF the virtual, are extremely important asides. But they are beside the main point here, which is how things enter mutually-inclusively into the design.
	Once again, you begin with forces. You begin by thinking of the building and its eventual site in terms of the forces operative in and around them. Remember, you cannot see a force. Only the effects of forces are visible. Forces are actually accessible only in traces of the deformations they effect. Forces are invisible realities. It is like them to recur. So they are not all in any particular exercise of their effective power. They are singularly recessive; iterative and therefore also generic; variational, thus multiple. In a word, forces are virtual. They are the natural expression of the virtual. So you simulate them. You double the natural expression of the virtual by the most artificial of means. 
	For example, you might simulate gravity. Gravity, of course, is not the only kind of architecturally operative force. Say you are designing a bus terminal. There are other attractive forces at play. The flow of traffic past the terminal, into which the arriving passengers will tend inexorably to be swept, is one. 
	Another important aside: this urban “force” forces a rethink of “nature.” Nature, from the affirmative perspective, is anything encountered by creative procedure which may be procedurally construed as having been already in operation. Here, “already-operative” is one pole of the base definition of nature. Nature, from this angle, is the also-ran. It is the processual “given”: whatever is “found” by a process under way as evidence of another process having run; whatever is encountered by a process as effectively other than its own; whatever comes to it as from across a dynamic gap; whatever it operatively takes itself to be cut off from and whose operative inclusion must therefore be prepared. The “givenness” of nature is the “anteriority” of other runnings, grasped procedurally from the angle of their actual effects, their literally encountered physical traces (not their metaphysical-metaphorical supplementarity). To return to an earlier point, it is only in this sense of givenness that style and disciplinary tradition are of the “nature” of architecture as practiced. That "nature" naturally extends beyond the given. The forces that have produced the traces consituting nature as given are iterative, and through their repetition are apt to produce novelties of effect that go beyond the given. This is the other pole of "nature," included in the very definition of force: the tendency to surpass the given, in new, emergent forms.xiii The architectural process, as operating in an open field not bounded by its disciplinarity, enthusiastically takes up "nature" from this angle. Its own "cultural" activities are but this "nature," furthered.xiv
	There is a common critique of Lynn’s work that it is “naïvely” complicit with “naturalism.” This objection must be tempered. The opposition between the natural and the artificial, as commonly understood, is not in any way fundamental here. Neither is the dichotomy between the naïve and the contrived. They may well be fundamental to other operations, particularly ones that style themselves “critical.” But here, the artificial is affirmed as being as natural as nature by any other definition. There is considered to be a generic (processual) indistinction between nature and culture. Taking in the givenness of indistinct nature(-culture), and forcefully bringing it to another surpassing of itself, requires the most artificial of means. The given only figures in the process as prepared for this surpassing. Naturalism (the genre) and naïveté are not the issue. The issues are virtual process and its procedural expression across an operative nature-culture continuum, with respect to which divisions between the two are derivative stations. Like all static forms, seen or conceived, their separateness is on the level of effect. It is produced (and endures only as forcefully re-produced). Our static metaphysical sense of the natural and the artificial as discrete formations needs to bend to a pragmatics of virtual processing and its generic vagueness – understood as reproductive of distinction (productive of new difference). If this generative, iterative perspective also bends our sense of the -isms we have grown anxiously accustomed to opposing, so be it. Relax, let down your genres. Leave your battle stations. Follow process.
	In Lynn’s project for the Port Authority Bus Terminal in New York (1995),xv it goes like this. You prepare a site simulation. You translate prominent features of the site as abstract forces. This produces a dynamic map filling the screen. Noncoincident forces occupying the same space fill it with gradations. For example, you could program as regions of attraction the flow of traffic on the street in front of the terminal that arriving passengers will want to merge into and the gravitational pull that will draw them to street level. You program where the terminal stands as a region of repulsion, as a region for leaving. You end up with a gradient force-field composed of basins of attraction, a basin of repulsion, and a transition space where attractions and repulsions shade into and out of each other. In a gradient field, there are no strict divisions. Regions are vaguely bounded by thresholds of interaction belonging to more than one region. The threshold zones’ mutual belonging varies in degree,xvi according to the relative strength of the influence that the basins radiate at particular points and of the interference patterns arising from the overlap of their resident forces. The site, thus mapped, is an open, differential field. It is characterized by a gradient continuity of tension – a variegated tensile continuum – rather than sharp boundaries and discrete features. If a Euclidean space could be likened to a still shot, the gradient field programmed for the screen is the spatial equivalent of a dissolve. It is differentiated not by the frame and the cut, but by fading-outs that are simultaneously fadings-in. The usefulness of the cinematic comparison is limited, however. The field is differentiated invisibly. It is not yet a question of visual form but of unseen degrees of intensity (defined as the differential co-presence of forces that cannot cancel out each other’s operations without remainder, and therefore must be understood as integrally co-operating in the determination of any effect that may arise).xvii The field is proto-formal: a topological field.
	Intensely prepared as a spatial dissolve, the screen is now ready. All it needs for something to come to pass – is something to come to pass. Throw an abstract object into the openness of the force-field. Something happens. What has been proto-formally prepared is an event. Throw in a spherical particle assigned a certain mass: it will move. The tension of the field plays out as movement. Intensity, in the event, translates extensively as movement. The particle will waft from basin to basin, sometimes hesitating at the thresholds between. In most cases, it will end up being captured by the strongest basin of attraction and fall into entropic quiescence.
	The shape should not mislead. The particle does not fundamentally figure as a form. It is programmed for activity: as a counter-force to the field. Its shape is a token of its force, the rigidity it needs to resist the field’s dissolve, to resist being dissolved into the field. Its visible form is an expression of the invisible force of resistance it opposes to the continuum. The particle is endowed with a second force in addition to its rigidity factor: “mass.” The strength of the attractive and repulsive influences the basins exert on the particle, and the way in which it will be affected in the transitional zones where they shade in and out of each other, are functions of its assigned mass. Ratchet up the mass, and the way it moves will change. The velocity and path of the particle, the nature and extent of its movement, expresses the interaction of the gradient force-field with the sub-force-field of its mass. The movement is a visible expression of the relation between the resident forces of the field and those of the particle: its optical effect. Motto: FORM FOLLOWS FORCE.
	Both the gradient field and the particle are themselves internally differentiated: they are already relational (a consolidated alliance between rigidity and mass against an open differential of attractions and repulsions). The relation of which the movement is the visible expression is a relation between relations (running abstractly, prior to and outside the actual relations of the physical site-to-be). Operatively, what you see as a geometrically discrete particle moving against a background is an unfolding continuity of complex relation. The relationality is not itself visible. The form and its path of movement expresses invisible interactions of forces. The Euclidean geometry of the particle is secondary to the playing out of this abstract intensity. “Playing out” should be underlined: it takes time for the relationality to render its effect in the particle’s observed movement. This has to run. It must unfold. It is irreducibly durational. The architect is no longer designing primarily with visible form. She or he is designing with duration, rendered visible.xviii
	“Duration,” is another word for the virtual on the run, in the direction of the emergence of the new. Visible form is now in the service of the virtual. Its calling is to actualize the virtual in movement: to render it dynamically (so very different from representing it). Architectural design is not simply using new a tool, “virtual” technology. It is keying directly into the reality of the virtual, in all its self-differing continuity and elusive abstractness. Architecture is rendering itself a technology of the virtual. 
	The virtual can become the elusive object of a technology because it is itself as produced as it is given. Although it is not “in” any particular form expressing it, neither is it separable from its renderings. It is not outside and abstract in the transcendent sense. It is transpiring. It is the eventfulness of form: what repeatedly runs through it. It is only marginally better to think of the virtual in terms of information than it is to mistake it for Platonic transcendence. The virtual is not informational input or output. It is relational through-put. Since it cannot run-through without leaving traces of its passage, without taking formal effect, the virtual is as dependent for its return on the re-generation of form as form is dependent for its dynamism on the intensity of the virtual. Co-dependency. The virtual and its actual expression through form are wed in a symbiotic rhythm of return and regeneration.
	If the process is rhythmic, then in order to double it technologies of the virtual must be iterative in their procedure. To iterate is precisely what the virtually-inclined architect does in design practice: tweak and repeat. Change parameters and re-run. Reassign mass, vary the topology of the field, and see what happens. Tweak and see: technologies of the virtual are experimental practices. 
	Expert at “reading” what is “written” in visual form, the critical architect is required to be painfully literate. The virtually affirmative architect,xix on the other hand, is encouraged to be abundantly iterate. The critical architect, feeling tradition-bound and hating it, is challenged by perceived strictures (given structures). The affirmative architect, operating with joyful abandon in an open relational field, is challenged by the plethora of invisible procedural possibilities to surpass the given. This leads to a novel problem, one that is entirely different from the problem of being bound by tradition. It is a directly processual problem, what in computer parlance is called the “stopping problem.” The regenerative process can be repeated endlessly, to different effect. So how do you know when to stop? Which effect is the “right” one? What criteria can you apply to a process that is so incomparably open and elusive that it continually defies set categories? How do you judge something that offers no self-justification other than its own runaway appeal? Granted, you love it. But can you stop tweaking already and choose?