Not yet. So far, we have little more than a speck wafting around on the screen. That hardly qualifies as startlingly new, let alone a bus terminal. The whole thing also seems so programmed and mechanical. The force of gravity it accepts into the very heart of its modeling seems to be the epitome of determinism. How could such a recalcitrantly Newtonian force "surpass the given"? It is hard to see why Lynn persists in calling the process “animate.”
	As the most cursory glance at the history of Newton’s laws of motion show, however, the determined behavior of gravity has been less than exemplary. If you have two bodies – two gravitational basins of attraction – the interaction is calculable. The movement expressing their relation is regular and predictable. With three bodies, something happens. The interaction between three relational sub-fields is mathematically incalculable and empirically unpredictable. A margin of indeterminacy enters the interaction. The interference patterns between the basins of attraction create thresholds of undecideability. When one of the bodies approaches a threshold, it is impossible to know its subsequent path with certainty. Gravity is exemplary after all: it is the text-book example of “deterministic chaos.” That term refers to the fact that relational-field effects (“resonance” in Poincaré’s vocabulary) can be counted on to undetermine what by formal definition are the most predictable of things: natural forces.xx
	The programmed gradient field described above comprises more than two relational sub-fields. There is always a possibility that when the particle approaches a threshold zone it will fly off chaotically rather than settling entropically into the strongest basin of attraction. Or it may hesitate at the threshold just enough to settle into in a weaker basin. This can be clearly seen on screen if instead of throwing in one particle, you throw in a whole mess of them: a particle cloud. The interaction gets impossibly complicated, because the masses of the mess of particles are interacting with each other as mini-gravitational fields in addition to each interacting with the ambient gradient field. When the rigid little creatures collide they bounce off each other in gaseous abandon. Every parameter is completely determined, yet the outcome retains an element of chaos.
	At the same time, a pattern emerges. This is because the law of large numbers takes over. Statistically, many more particles will make their way to the strongest basin than will fly off unpredictably. The precise path each particle will take toward its probable entropic destiny will vary, so that although the overall pattern may be foreseen, its exact contours cannot be. The form can only be vaguely predicted, and remains fuzzy on the edges. When order arises out of resonance, even the most exact determination of process parameters renders “anexact” form.xxi It is the element of unpredictability and the persistence of processual vagueness that allows Lynn to speak of the formal end-effect as “animate,” even if it has run out into a largely stable pattern.
	The manyness of the mini-fields in a particle cloud means that the chaotic effect of order out of resonance can be achieved with just one ambient gradient field, modelling for example the earth’s gravitational influence. The particles’ rigidity factor can be relaxed to give them extra chaotic bounce. The architect can take the resulting anexact cloud shape and extract a useable Euclidean form from it. This can be done as simply as by taking a freeze-frame and cleaning it up. Another procedure uses an animation “sweep” technique to produce a “phase portrait” of selected particles’ trajectories. This consists in capturing images of a particle at regular intervals over the course of its movement, superimposing the stills on the same frame, then repeating the procedure for several particles, and finally superimposing the portraits.xxii The resulting form is useful because, by the very nature of the process of its patterning, it automatically embodies gravitational effects. The Euclidean translation of the anexact chaotic form is pre-engineered for gravity. It is fit, for example, to be an exit ramp. It must be emphasized that the usefulness comes out toward the end. The process leading up to a functional result is not itself functionally determined. It is intensively determined, through resonance and re-run. It is proto-functional in the same way that it is proto-formal.xxiii The functionality emerges in the same movement as the form itself, both as expressions of a relational process resembling nothing other than its own process, its own iterative intensity. FORM AND FUNCTION FOLLOW INTENSITY (not as catchy, but still not bad for a motto).
	One of the upshots is: the universal architectural constraint of gravity has been internalized as an enabling condition of the design. Instead of feeling his creativity constricted or contradicted by it, the architect welcomes gravity into the design process and plays variations on its resonance-readiness. The constraint of gravity becomes a positive contributor in the creation of new form. Any number of gravity-resistant forms can be generated simply by varying the parameters and doing a re-play. Which end-form will be chosen? It is in the selection – out the far end of the process – that issues of style and reading may enter back in. The selection may well be made by the architect, in cognizance of the genres of architecture and their history, as a function of her allegiances and aversions, or her will to distinguish her work. Although, it is just as likely that the client’s taste and (perhaps) ignorance of and inability to read architectural history will intervene. In that case, the architect can still inflect the outcome by taking the client’s reaction and stated preferences and re-generating the form until a mutually acceptable mutation of designer and client preferences emerges – something recognizable enough from both sides that it “passes,” but not so recognizable as to be confined simply to being one way or another. The design process can internalize another universal architectural constraint almost as easily as that of gravity: that of social negotiation. In fact, the closer the design process comes to alluviating into concrete, built form, the  more negotiated it will become. For example, contractors may feel that pre-engineering leaves something to be desired. No problem: tweak and re-run again. The process continues.
	Its continuability is so open-ended that even the “completed” building will have to be considered essentially provisional. It could just as well have been any number of other buildings, if the programming and negotiated re-programmings had, by chance of chaotic circumstance, run slightly differently. The building retains an element of the generic, even in its concrete particularity. The finality of the design is by nature deferred. There is no one moment where the architect can stand back from the process and say: I, creative master, have spoken in my form; read what I have said. The design process is less an external conduit for the artist’s creativity than the artist is a conduit for creativity of the design process. Every constraint that gets internalized, from the very first run, is a literal co-author of the form: another of its intrinsic growth factors. The process takes on a certain autonomy of expression. The architect admits his inability to control exactly how the form will emerge and what it will “say” when it does (how it will be “read”). The architect is less a Godly creator than a desk-bound shaman abstractly summoning powers of virtual transformation through the medium of the computer, coaxing them to express themselves in a particular form.
	From one perspective, this autonomizing of the design process is authorial abdication. From another, it is simple honesty. What architect works alone? Isn’t every architectural signature – like that of the cinematic auteur –a scrawled over the group efforts of a corporate body: “The Office”? Isn’t the necessarily collective nature of actual design organization an enabling “constraint” on individual authorship from ground zero? Shouldn’t buildings have  credits?xxiv And what artist can ever really control the fate of the creation once it is loosed upon the world? There is ultimately no controlling the effective events a building will cooperate in producing when it is itself a basin of attraction or repulsion in the wide open fields of the city and the countryside. Is not the only truism of history that it will continue? Is not the only historical certainty change? The critical desire to impose a particular reading, or even the general approach of reading, for all the archival savvy that may inform it, can be argued to be profoundly anti-historical. The most anti-historical thing one can do is demand that anything be historical in a determined way – that anything be anything determinate – for longer than a provisional freeze-frame, for longer than a rhythmic beat in a cycle of return and regeneration. If history were not always in the process of re-becoming itself in a way that brings all historical being integrally back into question, it wouldn’t be what it is: the playing-out of all the world’s relationality; the widest chaotic expression of the infinitely complex intensity of the most encompassing of unbounded fields (the earth or cosmos, understood as nature-culture at its broadest). The instant you assert an ideal of creative control, as soon as you try to impose a program in the traditional sense, you are working to stop the ongoing process of worldly self-expression that is becoming of history. You are trying to make a private station of it – a freeze-frame with your individual signature written all over it. Okay, so you admit it won’t be the actual end-all of human history. Still, you feel that your creation should at very least have the staying power of a lasting monument to your personal genius (even authorial subjects can be modest in a pinch). The affirmative artist, for his part, stops in the name of a next beat. He makes a stay, that the collective rhythm continue. Affirmative architecture affirms even (especially) the provisional nature of its own products. As Greg Lynn set out to build what to date is his only completed building, the Korean Presbyterian Church in Queens (in collaboration with Michael McInturf and Douglas Garofalo, 1995-1999), he was advised by the client that it would likely be torn down or substantially redesigned within three or four years because the congregation was increasing so fast it would soon outgrow it. He loved it. This is not to say that an affirmative artist cannot be immodest, ambitious, or even downright egotistical, or that a critical architect necessarily has those traits. It is not really a question of character or personal qualities at all. It is a question of quality of process. Personality traits are on a level with everything else: processual parameters among others, adding spice to the expressive autonomy of the chaotic world-soup of design.xxv
	In a way Eisenman was right to cry abdication. After all manner of contraints have been internalized into the process in the capacity of co-authoring growth factors, it is impossible to say exactly who is responsible for what. Each internalization of a constraint has added a determination. But each deterimination is only a part-determination. In the long run, the determinism of the process is chaotic, retaining an unexpungeable element of openness. The architect’s re-runs are part-decisions contributing to a process that is in the long run self-directing. The artist is a collaborator in a process of virtual expression that he can intentionally inflect or modulate but never completely control. As a willful individual, he is to the overall design process as his wafting on-screen particles are to their gradient field. His will is like a sphere: a surface rigidity silently bespeaking openness of relation. Creative will is a conscious bubble expressing in its apparently linear ordering a complex interplay of forces encompassing of any actual instance of decisiveness. Design is cloudy: a relation of relation between populations of co-factors taking more-or-less chaotic shape. The collaborative role the individual architect plays in the collective shape-taking is more a processual symbiosis subject to chance-driven evolutionary pressures – piloted by a self-regenerating internalization in the process, by the process, of its own external constraints – than the mastery of a program or design object.
	Here come the “blobs.” The cloud-massing particles discussed so far were not topological figures. Their shape was invariant. What was topological in the sense discussed earlier was how their collective relation to the gradient field played out. Lynn’s trademark blobs directly figure topological transformations.xxvi A blob is a flexible sphere radiating a quasi-gravitational field of influence. The force of the field varies according to the blob’s surface area and assigned “mass.” When two or more blobs enter into proximity, their fields of influence interact, forming a zone of relation or reciprocal transformation. Depending on how their relation plays, they will either inflect each other’s surface amoebically in unpredictable ways, or fuse into a single super- blob. From the topological point of view, Lynn notes, a sphere is but a lonely blob: a blob without influence, isolated from neighboring forces.xxvii Once again, classical geometric figures can be considered isolates or extractive limit-cases of topological transformations.
	Now put a gaggle of blobs in a gradient field and let the program run. The blobs will stretch around each other like amorous slugs. Some will fuse, forming pluri-chambered bulbous structures or tubulations. What collective shape arises from their deformational congress cannot be predicted with accuracy. The blobs do not only mutually deform. Their reciprocal transformation is itself inflected by the surrounding gradient field. Relation of relation. Interrelation to the second power: greater complexity, increased unforeseeability. Stop the program. The visible shape you are left with is a processual emergence from the relationally unforeseen.
	Suppose the shape is earmarked to become a house. But suppose the client doesn’t want to live in the stomach of a highly unforeseen amoeba. Perhaps, for reasons the architect will never comprehend, the client doesn’t figure his life in a geometry of slug love. Say the client wants a house of a certain generic floor-plan. An H-plan, for example. This was the external typological constraint placed on Lynn’s “House Prototype in Long Island” project (1994).xxviii Lynn realized that blobular stretching and fusing, or other too-random form generating procedures, could be limited by addition: by adding another relationality. Blobs were attached to an H-frame made of “splines.” A spline structure is composed of linear segments attached end to end to form a “skeleton.” Unlike a Euclidean line drawing, the spline figure is active. The points of intersection between skeletal segments have virtual strings attached to them. The strings are vectors pulling on each intersection in a different direction, with variable strength. The static figure is in fact a holding pattern formed by a tensile equilibrium between vectorial forces differentially applied through the length of the frame. If you vary the strength of one of the vectors, the influence propagates throughout the entire skeleton. The frame moves like the X-ray of a mime. Although compositionally the spline frame is linear and segmented, the movement that propagates through its structure is continuous and curved. The activation of the tensile relation between linear segments describes a topological transformation. Splining activates a Euclidean figure in a way that generates topological effects.
	In the Long Island House project, the virtual strings attached to the intersection points of the splinar H-frame connected to “site forces”: attractions or repulsions in the gradient field modeling the plot on which the house would be built. Again in response to client preference, the site forces primarily concerned visibility. A large tree and the line of sight to the ocean were programmed as forces of attraction. A neighboring house blocking the view of the ocean and an existing driveway were forces of repulsion. The connection of the skeleton frame to these forces actively translated features of the site into form. To be more precise, they translated values attached to site features into iterations of proto-architectural form-generation. The values entering the process, it must be emphasized, were not the architect’s. The architect’s contribution came in the way a formal typology and hierarchy of values imposed by another’s desires were integrated into the developing design process. Love those blobs: they seem to have attached themselves to certain edges of the frame. While the frame is busy formally propagating translated site influences, the blobs are at it again, doing their thing. But their range of amoebic mutation was now limited by their value-laden splinal mooring. Their neighborly abandon is moderated in a way that successfully renders it proto-functional: the tubularities that the blobs become in congress will be architecturally rendered as transitional spaces between the inside of the relationally activated frame and the influential outside of site-specific values. The project, however, is never built. It remains a proto-house, its growth stopped short of actual architectural rendering.
	In Lynn’s approach, what the architect works with during the design process is not an architectural object – yet. It is a proto-formal, proto-functional, abstractly real evolutionary entity. It is proto-architectural until it is actually built. Animate architecture posits a difference in kind between proto-type and finished architectural form. The proto-type is its own abstract reality becoming-architectural. The prefix “proto-” is misleading. The proto-type isn’t an already-architectural object of a certain type waiting passively on screen to be realized in steel. It is already actively real and still in process: it has the virtual reality of what was earlier characterized as a hypertype. Here, “hyper-” can substitute for “proto-.” Looking at Lynn’s design projects, it is difficult to make sense of them as determinate kinds of building, house, or terminal. They still have to be rendered recognizably architectural. This happens gradually as (if) they pass into construction. They are architecturally type-cast in passing: in continuation of a process that changes its nature as it goes. The evolving, hyper-typological, proto-reality of the design entity is what makes it necessary to speak of the design process encountering its own discipline as its outside, as it does with other contributory factors. The design process encounters its discipline as an external cultural constraint or natural given that it variationally internalizes – as part of the same passage by which it comes to be internalized by the discipline, as part of its own continuing variation (double becoming). 
	But isn’t this true of any design process, topological or otherwise? If design were architecturally pre-defined, how could designing change architecture? How would architecture itself ever evolve? It would be trapped in the vicious circle of its definition preceding itself, only ever to become what it already is. The very fact that architecture has a history necessitates the paradoxical view of the design process as a real becoming integratively outside the history it changingly enters. What is new and different about animate architecture is neither its virtuality –its self-immanent proto-reality – nor its co-variational emergence. What’s new is that it admits to and nurtures them. That it admits to being just emergent (rather than always already defined). That it brings out its coming out. And revels in it, taking cheer in its own creative incompletion. Never does Lynn claim to be the end-all.
	The cheer of becoming, open-ended, challenges architecture at large to review its disciplinary being. This is not a question of revisionism. It is not a question of opposing one version of architectural history to another. The issue is the very manner in which architecture, as a discipline, has a history. Bringing out that issue is the affirmative version of critique (practiced, as always, in passing). Incompletion and continuation are two sides of the same coin. Taking cheer in its own incompletion is a way of topological design reiterating: it continues. Architecture does not only have a history. It has a future. Change ahead.