When Lynn launched the rallying cry of “folding in architecture” he was not referring to a new style. “It is important to maintain a logic rather than a style of curvilinearity.”xxix Although topological design technique facilitates curvilinear form, there is no necessity to its dominating any final architectural rendering. As Bernard Cache has also vigorously argued, there is no intrinsic connection between topological design technique and any particular look.xxx “Folding in architecture” connotes not a style but a dynamic “logic,” a quality of process: “the formal affinities of [topological design projects] result from their pliancy and ability to deform in response to particular contingencies.”xxxi The folding “in” architecture is a contingent “folding-in” of the archtitectural outside.
	The quality of process in question has been amply characterized already. The process is serial. The seriation is of events. The process redefines itself at each event-step. It is evolutionary. Each event along the way is a more-or-less chance encounter, between its own internal variables, or between its internal variables and external constraint. The design process evolves most decidedly by integrating external constraints, converting them into internal growth factors: folding them into its self-generative activity. The process is additive. It is capable not only of multiplying versions of its formal results ad infinitum, but also of indefinitely increasing and varying the internal variables it eventfully combines toward each result. Welcoming of intrusion from outside, it is “pliant.” Which is not the same as “compliant” in the normal sense.xxxii It doesn’t conform to external contraints. It folds them in – to its own unfolding. It uses them to vary its results, to creatively diverge. The integrative process of divergent variation is autonomous in spite of – because of – its responsiveness to the encountered necessities of the outside. Both in terms of its internal disposition and its outward responsiveness, the process more fundamentally involves a composition of relations than of forms or elements of form. The composing of relations runs: it takes time. The process is durational: open-ended. Static form is its productive fall-out. 
	Referring to cheery responsiveness to external constraints, Lynn labels his approach “opportunistic.”xxxiii A less self-deprecating term for the quality of its process might simply be “generous.” The infolding approach invites the desires and values of others, among other alien “constraints,” to feature as positive occasions for growth. This is a welcoming approach to design, constitutionally accepting of what lies outside its control, tending from the very beginning toward productive engagement. Folding-in architecture is as directly an ethics as a design endeavor: an ethics of engagement.xxxiv
	 “Adventitious” would be a less value-laden term. It describes a divergent manner of growth connoting chance encounter: “arising or occurring sporadically or in other than the usual location” (said of buds).