If Lynn’s architecture were miscontrued as taking for its guiding principle a style or formal aesthetic, it would doubtless be characterized as biomorphic. It is in fact a common perception that Lynn sets out to produce architectural forms conveying biological metaphors. His designs do seem to burgeon or exfoliate, amoebate or grub. But it is entirely missing the point if this metaphoricity is taken to characterize the design process. That the process does not exclude metaphorical associations is attested to by the regularity with which they are voiced by viewers. But if the process gives rise to metaphor it is by non-metaphorical means, as a by-product of its relational operation. Any metaphorical associations that may set in between a topological design and a preexisting biological form are produced resemblances, in the sense discussed earlier: derivatives. When a metaphorical reading begins, it is a sure sign that the process has stopped. It has been taken up by or flipped over into an entirely different process, one based on formal assimilation rather than formative differentiation.
	A particularly instructive example of this occurred at a public presentation several years ago of a very early draft of this essay.xxxv A famous psychoanalytically-inclined literary critic in the audience became visibly agitated by the carryings-on of the blobs on screen. When the question and answer period came, his hand shot up. In a tone that announced that the coming comment would trump the entire presentation, he pronounced: “But of course, they’re breasts.” But of course. Why hadn’t I noticed? Why hadn’t I realized that Lynn was not pragmatically enacting an impersonal creative process but was only acting out a melancholic repetition-compulsion to return metaphorically to his own all-too-human beginnings? Why had I been taken in by all this topological mumbo-jumbo? Multiple singular-generic, my foot (or is that swollen foot?). It was all so simple, so clichéd, so abject and unaffirmative all along. I had been deceived by Lynn’s self-deception. Partners in disavowal, caught out by the penetrating critic.
	But then: perhaps I hadn’t noticed because there were five blobs.xxxvi Is it disingenuous to remark that breasts tend to occur in pairs? A literary critic may wish they came by fives. Disavowal ... or wish-fulfilment? Whose “performance envelope” is showing now?
	Metaphor is on the tongue of the beholder. Metaphors are produced adjacent to, and in uptake from, the form-generating process. They occur where a visual apprehension of a sameness in the generated form authorizes an assimilation between that form and another already-constituted form. Metaphor starts from a pregiven form from which it extracts identifying properties, like curviness. The form is recognized on the basis of those properties as a particular case of a general class, taken as predefined. A second class of forms is seen to exhibit the same properties, albeit combined with other properties not exhibited by the first form. The partial overlap of recognizable properties enables a transference to be effected between the forms whereby the functions of one are attributed to the other (in this example, functions of a sexual nature). The functions also are taken as predefined. Once the transfer is established, it can be refined and expanded through linguistic associations underwritten by the symbolic structure of a signifying system. The symbolic structure, once again, is pregiven.xxxvii 
	It takes little effort to see how different this metaphorical process is from the topological design process, for which no form is pregiven. The starting point is force, rather than form. The forces are multiple, cohabiting an active space. They figure in that space as differentials composing an intensity rather than exhibiting an identity. To be more exact, they prefigure in that space, because they are proto-formal and proto-functional. No set of visible formal properties or determinate function can be assigned to them as yet. These will come of the process of the intensity's playing out. The form of that playing out – the continuity of topological transformations involved – is hypertypological. That is, it is constituvely multiply and irreducible to a general class. Neither can its constitutive multiplicity be reduced to a plurality of particular cases belonging to general classes. It is not particular-general but singular-generic. What defines the nature of the figure are the transitions it effects toward its own mutual inclusion of potential forms. The process does not labor in the domain of function; it moves in the realm of potential. Virtuality is its element. The figure is not fundamentally functional, symbolic, or signifying. It is purely operative. It has no inherent properties, only parameters of movement and transformation. Likeness – sameness, identity, resemblance – are not of its nature. Its nature is in transformation. It is only at the end, after the process stops, at the point at which a freeze-frame is extracted and the topological figure falls out of its immanence to its own playing-out, that any of the formal characteristics that ground the possibility of metaphor take root. Taken as a stand-alone form, its marking by the process is interpreted as an expression of architectural style against the background, no longer of its own formation, but of the history of the discipline. 
	It is here that a certain biomorphism will be noted. The forms Lynn generates do suggest organic metaphors, not all as loaded as the suckling critic's penta-breast. Lynn doesn’t deny this, and at times will play along with it, as when he presents his design for the Yokohama Port Terminal as architectural “sushi.” Other designs might suggest foliations or invaginations, pseudopods or flowerings, budding and couplings. Metaphors happen.xxxviii
	That's the point: metaphors happen; they are derived. They are by-products of the exuberance of the topological form-generating of the process, taken up at the point where that process stops. They mark one of its limits. They are a cut-off point of topological figure-formation. The key concept, worth repeating again, is that Lynnian resemblances are produced. They are produced by a process which in no way resembles its product – but may operatively echo it. The resemblances are "not attributable to some reduced simplified type but [i]s rather the result of dynamic non-linear interactions of internal directives … and the generative fields that are configured by a flexible and adaptable system of integrating differences."xxxix What biomorphism may be seen is the result of an operative analogy between how nature generates form in the wild and the nature of the form-generating process in the studio.
	Earlier, Lynn’s design process was qualified as “adventitious,” as said of buds. This does assert an identity of sorts. But it is not fundamentally between buds and buildings. It is less that buildings are budlike than that the processes from which both buds and buildings grow proceed adventitiously, in like manner. In other words, Lynn’s architecture is “animate” in the sense that it marshals for architectural design some of the “same” relational growth processes – those native to generative fields plied by flexible and adaptable systems of integrating differences – as have led to the proliferations of life. It runs with the same exuberance of variation and evolutionary abandon as is everywhere apparent in nature outside the studio. The concept of identity at issue here does not hinge on visible resemblance. It is not a formal identity. It signifies nothing. It runs (away with itself). It is an asignifying operative identity. Operative, or processual, identity has its own logic. It is not subject to the formal likeness-driven classificatory thinking underwriting metaphor. By the same token, it is free of imitation. The concern is not to imitate biological form, any more than it is to produce metaphors of it. "Building are not organisms but merely provisional structures that are already multiplicitous."xl The concern is for the de-form, as it happens: the multiple, the singular, and the generic, in differential continuity and continuous differentiation. Imageless, ongoing, iteratively divergent and divergently emergent.xli