Lynn’s refusal of metaphor sometimes comes across as a refusal to think beyond the design stage. What of the completed design? What of the built form? When he sidelines metaphor, and with it symbolism, stylistic allusion, and signification – so dear to so many twentieth-century architects – is he abandoning the building to its literal functioning? When all is said and done, does he end up a default modernist in topological clothing, allowing form to meld with function yet again? Is there any way the “station” extracted from the topological design process can retain something of the relational dynamism and multiplicity of the process that generated it? 
	Entirely in character, Lynn uses a geometric concept to tackle this problem. The thresholds discussed earlier between basins of attraction and repulsion in the active topological field are termed “separatrices.” A separatrix is a curve featuring in a dynamic interaction of different orders of forces whose difference plays out across a threshold to selective effect. In the cloud example, the cooperating forces of mass and rigidity made visible in the spherical form of the particles interacted with the topological field in such a way that the particles separated themselves out by crossing thresholds into different basins. Their distribution could not be predicted in detail, on a particle by particle basis, but it nevertheless followed a certain probability pattern. The selection effected at the separatrix carries a margin of indeterminacy that does not preclude stability. The stability, however, is not foundational. It arises from a dynamic process after a certain duration, and for a certain duration. A stability of this kind is called a “metastability.” A metastability emerges. It has the character of an event. It cannot erase the indeterminacy of its generative process or the expunge specter of ultimate instability that goes with it. Still, it has probability on its side. For this reason, it remains stable within certain parameters, or within a “performance envelope.”
	Metastability is exactly what you want when you board a sailboat. You don’t want the boat to have a hull whose functioning is invariant. If the hull didn’t respond variably to the motion of the waves and wind, the chaos of the sea would be directly transmitted to the boat, readily capsizing it. The process of designing a hull has to integrate contingency-sensitive variation into a single end form. “The abstract space of design is imbued with the properties of flow, turbulence, viscosity, and drag so that the form of the hull can be conceived in motion through the water ... The design space is conceived as an environment of force and motion .... The virtual force of the environment in which it is designed contributes to its shape.”xlii This is done not in order to make a hull that changes shape – any more than animate architecture seeks to construct buildings that move (a reductio ad absurdum often thrown at it). The aim is to wrap the potential for a multiplicity of responses into a single form. Depending on how the forces of the environment hit the hull and sails, the spine will toggle the boat into different postures or “points of sail.” The spine operates as a separatrix between postural “basins” of attraction, adapting the boat’s movement, at each buffet, to the environing turbulence. As a result the boat will be metastable: its motions will describe sailings more regularly than sinkings.
	“On the hull’s surface, multiple points of sail are ... resolved in the form itself ... multiple vectors of movement are stored in the object itself as potential energy” (34). The constituted form itself is understood (and used) dynamically, from the point of view of potential for variation. The form’s variational responses to contingencies of force are carry-overs from the active space of the topological design process. They are abstract design dynamics that have entered into the object and are “stored” in it. What is potential energy if not a remainder of virtual movement in actual station? A surcharge of multiplicity imbuing the simplicity of an unchanging form? A surplus of variation animating a single spline? Something of the process has been effectively packed into the product, making it concretely multiple-singular. It doesn’t matter so much what the hull looks like as long as it meets generic expectations, in both its multiplicity and its singularlity. No matter what it looks like, there will be visual and linguistic associations. Granted. But they will have nothing to do with the operative identity of the design process, as it has successfully carried over into its product. The carry-over of potential energy is an invisible thread of connection bringing the constituted form back into continuity with its formation. The product still doesn’t resemble the formative process. But then it doesn’t resemble its own potential energy either. Or its own performance, for that matter. What shape is a toggling? The continuity of process remains invisible and without resemblance, even as it takes actual shape. Its rendering visible is never without remainder, and it is the unseen remainder that is of the essence.
	What is the analog of a sailboat’s hull for a building? Perhaps the use of interactive materials whose performance changes in response to variations in light or temperature. But isn’t that missing something? That kind of dynamic variability operates in the absence of anyone in or around the building. A building without human bodies is like a sail without a wind. Is there a way of making the process continue in relationship with the turbulent forces of the human body? Potential energy may be a mode under which virtuality passes into the actual. But it is not the only one. In fact, it is arguably the lowest degree of the virtual in the actual. The potential it packs into form is restricted to variations on extended movement, lending itself to a necessarily a limited number of selective postures. How can that envelopment of potential be reintensified? For example, what virtual powers might be accessed in connection with the human body’s forces of perception, sensation, and expression? Is there a way to build in potentials for variation that fold out in other ways than extended movement? That imbue form with even greater dynamism and multiplicity – without falling back on metaphor and its resemblance-trafficking co-conspirators?