The stopping problem is a continuing problem. If you answer the question of when, why, and how to stop the process running in order to render a form, you are immediately faced with the problem of how to make the process continue again across its stoppage. When you want station, you are faced with a runaway process. When you want to continue the process, you are confronted with a static form. No one ever said that animating architecture would be easy.
	Other ways of posing this problem: In what way do topological events of iterative variation inhabit the actual building, in interrelation with human matter and its movements? Does the building in some way do what made it? Does it effectively continue in its own creative process?
	A partial answer to these questions was provided earlier, when it was said that even the built form in a sense stands incomplete. Tinged by the contingency of its making, lacking a self-aggrandizing sense of its own monumentality, it invites redesign or razing, remaining receptive to further processual in-foldings. But this modesty, this openness is addressed only to the small band of people with actual authority to influence decisions: basically, design, planning, and construction professionals, and the client. What of the crowds of people into whose lives the building enters, those who pass into it or simply pass it by? Can these questions be asked on their behalf? To do so is to ask that problems normally approached in terms of programmed function, with aesthetic or signifying extras, be reapproached processually: that the question of good form make a turn to becoming.
	Lynn built the beginnings of a response into the Korean Presbyterian Church in Queens. For reasons that will become clear, this evolutionary branch of his practice, relaying process into reception and perception, seems largely to have dead-ended. What Lynn and his collaborators did was to design the ceiling of the main sanctuary to act as a visual version of the hull of a boat. The idea was that a single form would envelop more than one optical effect. The lighting was recessed between a series of fins running laterally across the ceiling, and titled toward the pulpit. When the congregation enters the sanctuary near the pulpit, they are bathed in the light. The parisioners who move toward the back of the room to find seating may sense the angle of the light becoming more oblique, its quality more diffuse, the higher into the seating and the farther away from the pulpit they get. If they were to watch the ceiling as they filed toward the back, they would notice that at a certain point the fins seem to flip closed like a shutter. From the back, the ceiling appears smooth and the light is noticeably concentrated on the pulpit, but more subtly than by a spotlight. Since the lights themselves are out of sight, it is as if the pulpit glows with its own illumination. This inspirational effect was achieved by using iterative topological deformations to seriate the fins. The relation between the ceiling fins and the room can be understood as the relation between a topological figure and an environing, gradient force-field processually “identical” to that of the active design space from which its form was extracted. The paths of circulation into and around the room and the more and less desirable seating areas are variably weighted basins of attraction. The pulpit is a basin of repulsion for the parisioners’ circulation, but a basin of attraction for their vision. The flip of the fins that occurs for a certain probability distribution of people entering the room and ascending the steps into the higher seating areas is a separatrix toggling between two “points of illumination” in much the way the spine of the boat hull toggles between points of sail on the high seas.
	The built sanctuary-form succeeds in continuing the process. The fin operator intensifies a formal design element by imbuing it with perceptual “potential energy.” This imbuing of the actual with a virtual co-presence of potentials is quite real. But it is also quite limited, in ways entirely appropriate to the circumstances. The lighting effect focused on the pulpit lends the minister a God-like air. The toggle between points of illumination simultaneously toggles the mood of the members of the minister’s flock, from the aggravation of making their way through the city to the church, then parking and finding a seat, to the exaltation of the service. It transitions the parishioners into a state of receptivity to the inspirational narratives and associative chains the sermon is meant to reawaken. The fins do double toggle duty, switching not only between perceptual effects but also between the perceptual level and the symbolic. This is indeed potentializing. But to a low degree of virtuality (like the hull), since it does not trigger a becoming. It confirms, or at most intensifies, the conventional definition and function of the space as a place of worship. It makes the church more “like” what it is (in contradistinction to the factory it was, and whose memory is preserved in the retrofitting design strategy). The operations of the fin separatrix, in its crowded religious gradient field, addresses established genre more than the generic in the emergent sense.
	It is noteworthy that the optical effect built into the Korean Presbyterian Church triggers a symbolic association of just the kind against which Lynn so carefully defends his design process as a whole. The symbolism takes the form of an optical effect. Like all optical effects, its appearance stands out from the conditions of its appearing. Its pops out from its production, to occupy a separate plane from it. Here, it pops out of the singular-generic into a genre; from operativity into symbolism; from experimentation into belief; from the generativity of process into perception experienced soulfully; from open field conditions mobilizing the never-before-seen of the virtual to subjective reception confirming the already-felt. The ceiling fins, from this poiont of view, are a kind of gear-shift mechanism between vastly different compositional planes. 
	Architecturally, this is not uninteresting. The appearing of the optical effect is an event, and as such activates the architecture, and does so differently than archtiectural gestures that invite "reading" or "critique." The eventness overcomes the ornament/structure dichotomy that traditionally framing architecture, since what appears is a unitary stand-out effect fullfilling its own (symbolic) function and (non-architectural) aesthetic value. There is no application of a decorative element to a functional structure. The optical effect's function and aesthetic value are indissociable from each, innhabiting the same plane of their eventful standing-out.
	Lynn’s gesture of building something like what he is building, and building for the people who use the building, his modestly allowing a symbolic becoming-Christian of his own steadfastly ungodly design practice, is a manifestation of the processual generosity alluded to earlier. It would be pure arrogance (not unheard-of among architects) to build in defiance of the clients' perceptions of their own needs. At the same time, this processual generosity in some ways amounts to a processual abdication. The generative process gear-shifts out of itself onto another plane, of a very different nature, where it culminates in a re-production of the already-felt rather continuing on its generative way. In the optical effect of the ceiling fins, the architectural process in-folded right out of itself. Emergence peaks out of itself, perceptually. This is one way of dealing with the continuing problem. But to judge by the subsequent evolution of his work, Lynn felt that this way, if generalized in his work, would lead to an impasse. 
	It is possible to imagine similar gestures that could succeed in continuing the process generatively and not lead to the same impasse. For example, Lars Spuybroek experiments with building in strategic patches of perceptual vagueness that require an active, embodied response that triggers a kind of wayfinding through the built environment in the course of which new perceptual orientations, enveloping a potential for emergent functions, arise.xliii Arakawa and Gins also make use of vagueness, suspending the perceptual cues that normally anchor the body's orientation in the built environment. Their Biocleave House, for example, is built in such a way that there is no perceptible line of demarcation between floor, walls, and ceiling. Neither are there windows affording a view that would situate the house in its exterior milieu, offering vanishing points and a horizon line necessary for perspective. The elements of the interior architecture are conceived as "landing sites." These are affordances that partially resolve the vagueness of the surrounds, not into regions of clarity but into sites of ambiguity: just resolved enough to evoke the potential for a response, without prefiguring which response, for what function. This polyvalency is meant to break the mold of habit, and invite the body to improvise on its manner of inhabiting, reintensifying its experience of the built environment. The idea is to create the conditions for the emergence of new modes of life arising relationally, between the body and the surrounds. The architectural process continues in the betweening. There is no longer a body in a building, but a body-building(-life): an integral "architectural body" wrapping the differential between the body proper and its built environment into a single, continuing process of becoming, more intensely alive again. Reanimate architecture.xliv 
	Both of these solutions to the continuing problem are predicated on an appeal to the perception, foregrounding the embodied nature of perception and striving to overcome the duality between the embodied subject of architecture and the materiality of the built environment. The work of Spuybroek and Arakawa and Gins demonstrate that it is possible to imbue form with greater dynamism and multiplicity, reintensifying the architectural end result with intensities of ongoing potential, without falling back on any constitutive role for metaphor, symbolism, or signification, and without predefined function taking form-generating precedence. But this will not be Lynn's way. After flirting with this path in the fins of the Korean Presbyterian Church, Lynn lets it drop like a deflated blob. It is as if he wishes to avoid, at all costs, anything that might steer architecture toward something resembling phenomenology.xlv Any appeal to perception, embodied or not, however integrally in-betweened, is, it would seem, to skirt too phenomenally close for comfort. This has contributed to a widespread judgment leveled againt Lynn's work, one that is without doubt the most commonly stated reason among his detractors for dismissing his work: that he is a "formalist." A corollary to this judgment is that he lacks a concept of the body, or even that he is coldly, digitally, methodically anti-body, a kind of fundamentalist of geometrical reason. This is a misdiagnosis. 
	What Lynn is against is not the body, but the subject, understood in any foundational way. And as the foregoing discussion of his concept of animate form should have made clear by now, he is not a formalist, but a processualist. What animates his work is a commitment to a process of becoming-architectural that is its own dynamic subject: a subjectless subjectivity one with its running; driven by its own on-going in-folding of formative forces; constituted by that very movement, which it can only recursively call its own. 
Lynn, of course, does not deny the existence of the phenomenal subject. The openness of his process to in-folding outside growth factors that include client preference and even belief is proof enough of that. But that is all the subject is to his process: one growth factor among many, all of which differentially populate the generative field of the design process. As we have seen, Lynn's own subjecthood, his own authorial agency, likewise figures as growth factor for the in-folding. Any constitutive or foundational appeal to a subject, embodied or not, understood in Cartesian terms as sovereign author of its actions or in phenomenological terms as a transcendental field, would vitiate the processual autonomy of the architectural process as self-running, for emergence. It would water down the animateness of animate form. It is precisely because Lynn is not a formalist that he needs a concept of animate form – a concept of form that is processual through and through. "Animate" form has none of the characteristics of form in the usual sense: having a general or ideal existence lying outside process; being fully determined and categorizable according to inherent properties; appealing to the recognition and operating according to resemblance based on those properties; serving as a mold for a matter separate from the mold, such that formation is applied from without in an exercise of transcendent ordering reproducing the same, rather than arising immanently from within the playing-out of a generative field of difference producing yet more difference. It is for the same processual reasons that Lynn rejects the subject-path and that he is not a formalist. 
	Lynn declines to follow the perceptual path as his main avenue, for fear that a foundational subject might contrive to return through topological architecture's back door, vitating his move toward animante form. Where he goes instead is toward surface on the one hand, and toward performance on the other. Either way, bodies are most welcome – provided a non-Cartesian and nonphenomenological notion of what constitutes a body can be conceived and operationalized. Lynn does not lack a concept of the body. In fact, the reconceptualization of the body was a central concern of his all along, as evidenced in his very earliest writings. The title of the collection of his essays from the 1990s makes this centrality clear in the very placement of the word: Folds, Bodies, & Blobs.xlvi