The choreographer William Forsythe once defined the body as "that which folds."xlvii Lynn would surely concur, adding an extra topological twist: a body is that which continually in-folds for continuous out-folding. The example of a body that Lynn develops most extensively in his writing is instructive – and not a little surprising. It is of a stadium wave: the tidal movement of waving hands that sport fans collectively produce to intensify the excitement of the game.xlviii In what sense is this ephemeral dynamic form a body?
	The first thing to remark is that the stadium wave is a gesture, and that it is expressive (of excitement). The second thing to remark is that its expression is self-propagating: it feeds off of its own momentum. Each roll of the wave folds the impulse inherited from the last and relays it forward, the expressed intensity mounting toward a crescendo. Who is the subject of the wave? There is no one. A single individual is not capable of starting it. More than one is required. The wave originates between existing bodies. It occurs when a number of bodies collectively launch themselves into correlated movements of their hands, in a kind of unspoken alliance that coincides with the event of the wave's taking effect, and does not survive its run. There is no subject of the wave, other than the event of the wave itself. This is a body-event: one only with its own taking dynamic form.
	The wave is a singular effect arising from no one cause. Every effect has some kind of cause. But some causes are more-than-one. These cannot be localized, in one subject or at particular point in space. The cause of the stadium wave is by nature distributed, akimbo the in-between. It is simultaneously here and there in the originating group, in the intervals between those existing bodies, all at once. The existing bodies are not acting as separate bodies. They are acting as correlated wave-formation factors. Their vitality enters selectively and partially into the wave. The participating individuals do not enter into the wave as who they are. Their identity is not important to the wave or what it expresses. In a full-stadium wave, even the participants' identity as fans of their particular team is suspended, as fans of both camps may act in concert to pump up the atmosphere. What the participants are is how they are, together, for the wave-making. All that is relevant is their concertation as formative factors for this event. They do not figure in the event as individual persons or identified bodies. They figure purely operatively, from the precise angle of their wave-making activity. They only figure in this capacity, in pro-wave efficacity. They are proto-wavers, in much the same way blobs are proto-architectural elements. They are elemental forces for formation, correlating into a composite movement. Each individual's gesture movingly fuses into the dynamic form of the wave. One wave, many bodies. From many subgestures, an integral overgesture. A singular "fusional mulitplicity."xlix
	Elemental does not mean foundational. Elementarity is relative to the composition at hand. The stadium wave is composed of proto-waving subgestures. These are also caused, and their cause is, like the wave, composite and ultimately nonlocal. But the wave cares nothing of this. It takes them up into its own formation as the elementary units proper to its own constitution. The forces entering into the composition of these pro-wave elements are many and heterogeneous. The participant's self-identification as fans is among them. Even though that identity as such is not taken up into the wave as a formative factor proper to it, it was part of what brought its proto-wavers to the stadium. It is among the forces that have produced the conditions for the wave-making. The cultural codes and conventions of fandom also number among the conditioning forces. As does the presence of the cameras that prime the expressive fires of the fans by providing them a channel for the propagation of their gestures' effect beyond the stadium to the millions of fans at home, not to mention the media commentators who whip up anticipation. The list could go on indefinitely. There are an infinity of contributory factors, of vastly different scales, straddling the vastest of distances. These factors cannot be counted, and the particular contribution of each cannot be precisely separated out. They overlap and interpenetrate, diffusing into an open field whose exact size or contours are indeterminate. The best way to describe them would be in terms of differentials – the differential between fans of one team and and another, between fans and nonfans, between stadium fans and home fans, fans and commentators, cameras feeds and viewing in situ, to name just a few – and intensities – levels of fan loyalty, vivacities of participation, and the number and variety of media feeds, each with its own reach and powers of attention-grabbing and passion-stirring. An open, differential field of intensities. That is what peaks in each gesture of each fan who lends him- or herself to the wave-making. That infinity of of contributory factors is integrally enveloped in each wave-forming subgesture of each proto-waving fan. Like the wave itself that they compose, each of the wave's composing elements are a fusional multiplicity. The fusional multiplicity of the stadium wave as a whole folds-out from the elemental folding-into its composing subgestures of the infinite, open, differential field of sporting intensities, mulitply peaking. 
	One of the main ingredients in this event has not been mentioned: the giant in-stadium screens. These provide instant feedback to the fans in the stadium of their own enthusiasm, so that it feeds on itself. This affective feedback mechanism is directly collective: it reflects the fan's concertation back into its own continuing. Using the stadium-wave as exemplary of what a body is raises a fundamental question: Can there be such a thing as a body without a surface? The notion of an ephemeral body is not terribly brain-teasing. But a body without a surface? If such a thing did exist, why would it be relevant to architecture? Isn't architecture traditionally defined precisely as a play between volume and surface? Here, there is neither.