Abstract Surface
	
The presence of the in-stadium cameras highlights the affective dimension of the event. Affect provides a way of answering the question of whether there is such a thing as a body without a surface. The answer is no. At least, not concretely. The dynamic form of the stadium wave is a self-propagating rhythm, not a surface in any usual sense. But it does agitate something: affect. Its rhythm rolls and rises: affectively. The wave has the shape of an enthusiasm.l Affect is the abstract surface upon which the wave inscribes itself. It is into affect that the myriad formative factors of the open field of conditions in-fold. The affect then eddies on itself, through the feedback provided by the in-stadium cameras. The eddying doesn't' stand in place. It energizes the unfolding of the wave's continuing formation. This is not a standing wave. It is a wave that rolls affect in, to roll itself over and onward, in the process transmitting the affect to bodies not participating actively in its production.
	Next question: can there be a wave without matter? Again, the answer is no. But this is a trick answer. The matter of the wave is not the hands of the wavers, as it might be tempting to say at first impression. It is not exactly hands that form the wave. Rather, it is their expressive gestures.  It is only because the hand motions are already in the gestural register, and the gestural register is already in the key of affect, that the wave is the body-event that it is. The hands lend themselves to the affective effect – and disappear into it. Watching a stadium-wave is not to watch a bunch of hands waving. It is to see their integral effect, directly in the key of affect. The matter of the body-event is affect itelf. Affect is the intensive matter of the event. It constitutes the abstract surface registering the integral intensity of this singular event, bringing to affective expression the differential intensities of the contributing factors actively folding in to it. 
If you focus on the hands, you cease to see the wave. The hands as such are a disjunctive multiplicity, while the wave has the integral continuity of a fusional multiplicity. You can't have one without the other. But that doesn't make them the same. There is a minimal difference between a bunch of fleshy hands and their collective shape of enthusiasm. But this minimal difference makes all the difference. The activity of the hands enters into the wave through their gestural ability to agitate the abstract surface of affect. But the hands themselves do not enter into the wave. The wave folds their activity into its own composition. It does so only by taking off from their form, in order to come into its own. The event takes off from hand-matter, folding into intensive affective matter, which is the register in which the event effectively expresses itself.
The stadium-wave occurs at the limit of the physical body, where a dynamic form detaches from the outline of the individual body and is directly actualized on an abstract surface. The materiality proper to the hands, flesh and blood, doubles the affective matter of the event, on another level. As Bergson noted, "the surface film of the body that constitutes the visible body is apt to double itself, one of the two copies remaining with the tactile body. But the fact remains that there is a body that is detachable from the body that one can touch, a body without interiority, weightless, and that is transported instantaneously to the point where it is."li Bergson was talking about the reflection of the unitary body in a pool. Here, a crowd of touchable, gesturing physical bodies double themselves en masse. An abstract double detaches from one and all, instantaneously transported into a fusional multiplicity that is directly seen, as the affective matter-of-fact of the event, appearing right where it is – effectively all over, globally distributed – as a weightless abstract surface without interiority, affectively felt through the eyes without being touched (or touchable). "Our body," William James writes in a related comment, "is the palmary instance of the ambiguous. … We can treat it as physical or as non-physical according as we take it in the narrower or in the wider context." lii The body is "ambiguous" because it is two-sided: physical (touchable) and non-physical or abstract (untouchable, if still feelable); individual (proto-wavers) and collective (wave-effect); narrower and wider; elemental and integral; several and fused; given bodies (giving their activity to the wave) and a becoming-body (taking that distributed activity into itself, where it is). 
The body is duplex: that which folds itself double. The fusional multiplicity of the collective effect stands out from and doubles the individual bodies forming it, without physically separating itself from them. Rather, it abstracts itself out of the in-between of them, into its own dynamic form. It couches itself in its own intensive matter, which overlaps with the physical activity of its elemental, fleshly bodies, while distinguishing itself from their elemental forms. The becoming-body of the wave brings the multiplicity of flesh-and-blood bodies to a singularly eventful, affective expression, on and as its own register of the real: intensive, expressive body-event.