Now imagine that all the hands are covered by a thin membrane. They are holding up a diaphanous tarp. When they wave, the membrane's surface ripples, deforming into the rolling of the wave. The dynamic form of the event would be the same. But now a concrete surface – the tarp – is doubling the abstract surface that doubles the collectivity of the wave's formative elements. Doubling doubled again. The concrete surface shares the same dynamic form as the abstract-surface wave, which it makes actually visible. The membrane doubles the abstract form of the stadium wave with a sensible form whose rhythm and patterning is identical to it. Even though this dynamic form is shared, there is still a minimal difference that makes all the difference: between the nonsensuous and the sensuous. This is the difference between intensive matter (which is nonlocalizable, as an all-over effect) and extensive matter (which, concretely extending over an area, has physical location). The affective matter of the wave is redoubled by visible matter. The nonphysicality of the body-event concretes. The touchable membrane covers the event, contributing its own physicality to it. That physical resurfacing interposes itself between the formative factors of the wave – the crowd of stadium fans – and the home fans populating the wider context of the media environment. 
Now, shift focus. Think of an architectural surface, a wall say. Everything that was said of the stadium-wave can be said of the events that compose themselves in and around the walls of the building. Inside the building lies the open, differential, intensive field of inhabition, composed of an infinity of conditioning factors – habit, desire, physiological needs, convention, furnishings, equipment, embedded media systems, and so forth ad infinitum. Not just hands, but a mixed bag of elements of all natures. Outside the building lies another open, differential, intensive field, of the urban. This field is composed of factors such as zoning, patterns of circulation and frequentation, noise, community facilities, collective equipment, policing, and norms of interaction. Another mixed bag, many-handed and more. The architectural surface folds these open fields into and out of each other, producing all manner of body events on the abstract surface of habitation. This folding in and out is the intensive matter of architecture. Walls, roofs, and floors compose the extensive surface visibly doubling the abstract body-events of inhabitation.
The elements in the open fields lying on either side of the walls are so various, the complexity of their interactions so complex, that each field taken in its own right, and both together, in their folding into and out of each other, exceed the visible. The concrete architectural surface lends its own visibility to this excess over the seen. The concrete surface stands in vision for the dynamic form of this fielding and folding. Its static form is the visible instantiation of the dynamic form of architecture, of its animate form. The concrete architectural surface expresses the multi-dimensioned, many-fielded, formative forces of architectural body-events in three dimensions – just as the particle clouds, blobs, and splines of Lynn's design process expressed the many-dimensioned formative forces of the design process on his 2D computer screen.
In the case of the architectural surface, the membrane, though physically static, is active. Its physical form co-organizes the body-events that occur in the fold between the fields. As with the hypothetical stadium-wave tarp, the concrete surface doubles an abstract surface. It is the sensible index of an eventful becoming-body that as such is nonsensuous. The body-event occurs once again on the affective register – now of inhabitation rather than fandom. Unlike the stadium wave, the concrete form does not physically present the dynamic form of the abstract body-event. The configuration of walls, roof, floors does not have the same rhythm and patterning as the body-event – which is so many-dimensioned as to defy geometric expression in itself. In this sense, the concrete architectural surface is a disjunctive expression of the fusional multiplicity for which it stands. Architectural body-events are made visible in concrete architectural form, while having their own form different from theirs. It is because of this disjunction that it is possible to consider the concrete architectural surface "formally." By that I mean separately from the dynamic form of inhabitation; in extension, as a standing geometric configuration, bracketing the intensive matter for which it stands, in its very making visible of it.
Architecture-related events are typically categorized as falling into the domestic-inside and the urban-outside. But the architectural surface, understood in this way as the dynamic form of a  becoming-body event made visible in concrete form, is not just a divider between an inside and an outside. It is an active membrane. Walls, roof, and floors establish a regime of passage between the open fields on either side of them. When you go in or out, you toggle between domestic and urban events. The separation between the two domains is not airtight. They trail affectively into each other, mutually modulating, interfusing. When the sound of a storm, or the noise of a passing car passes the membrane, or an internet feed or radio transmission infiltrates, the domestic-inside and urban- and media-outside, bleed together. They fuse, paned on a window or cabled through a wall. When you storm out of the house at the speed of a domestic spat, the becoming-body of that abstract event concretely swings on the hinges of the slammed door. The architectural surface is a transducer between the open fields, in the fold between which architectural body-events take shape. Through endless iterations of going in and going out, through the many panings, cablings, and hinge-swings and all manner of other passages, it brings affective effects fielded inside the walls into fusional continuity with affective effects fielding outside. The folding together of the fields forms a duplex: a single, two-sided transductive field of intensity. This is the affective matter of architecture. The dynamic form of architecture stands intensively in (and out of) its concrete form.
In the complexity of this process, novel effects can arise, through resonance or interference between the fields. On-the-fly improvisations may produce new variations, playing on the fusional multiplicity of conditioning factors that peak into architectural gestures of inhabitation. Body-events that cannot be clearly demarcated as either domestic or urban can emerge from this. A building's program can be supplemented – outdone by itself – by these emergent expressions. Architectural-body events (or architectural body-events) are always happening at any rate, each in their own way, on their own scale, duplexing their own crowd of formative elements. Their novelty may be more visible in nonstandard architectural constructions, they also occur in buildings belonging to traditional architectural genres, such as the sports stadium or single-family home. Body-events can take off anywhere – and do so in profusion, on all scales.liii