All of this changes the terms of architectural design. The dialectic between volume and surface becomes secondary, displaced by the formative play of differential factors in open fields. The divide between the interior and exterior is no longer as fundamental, displaced by transductive relations between open fields. The fundamental concepts of architecture are no longer architectonic by nature. They are naturally processual instead. 
This is another way of saying that architecture must be defined in the first instance in terms of proto-architectural forces, from which architectural forms proper are processual precipates: derivatives. When a built form precipitates from the design process, dropping into the open fields of life, the "derivative" reactivates, becoming a derived force. Its now concrete surfaces become transductive membranes actively modulating architectural body-events of inhabitation. In a way, the "continuing problem" discussed earlier, the question of how the design process feeds its fielding of its elemental formative forces forward into the built environment, is a non-issue. The process cannot but restart. At the first laying of a brick or application of drywall, it's up and re-running, enjoying an active afterlife. Across the interval of construction, it has transduced from a proto-architectural design-event to an architectural event proper.
The stadium-wave is an architectural body-event that does not have an inside or an outside, only a rhythm appearing on an abstract surface. In this sense, it retains its proto-architectural nature, at the price of exhausting itelf in its own ephemerality. It has an architectural becoming, with no concrete architecture become. It is embryonic architecture. Mature architectural forms, architectures in the finished, standing sense, take becoming-architectural to a concrete conclusion, doubling the abstract surface of expression with a material surface (a surface of another matter). In all cases, becoming-architectural involves a coming to integral expression of a multiplicity of formative forces differentially inhabiting open generative fields. The expression is always on an abstract surface, which in certain becomings-architectural (the kind that are actually built) is doubled by a concrete surface. The abstractness of this surface of expression as such qualifies Lynn's architecture as exactly what he says it is: not a formalism, but an abstract expressionism.liv
	Now return to the screen of the digital design process as earlier described. The screen is also a concrete double of the form-taking events passing through it. Properly speaking, these events occur on the abstract surface of topological transformation – purely abstract affectings and being affected, folding into and out of each other geometrically. The resulting animated figures are visible doubles of abstract bodies. A blob is not a metaphor for a body: a blob is a body. It is an abstract body, visibly expresssing itself in pixels, arising from an interplay of abstract formative forces operating in a virtual differential field. The abstract body is the manner in which the virtual field –which in and of itself is recessive in relation to experience, as discussed in the opening sections of this essay – comes out into experience. It is the actualization of the virtual: the nonsensuous image of that which has none.lv
Architecture has all manner of body-events, on any number of levels and scales. Essential to the architectural design process are techniques for transducing form-making, or form-taking, becoming-body-events from one level and scale to another. Each transduction moves the process to a new associated milieu (a different duplexing of open generative fields). The supreme abstractness of the digital phases of topological design process enables architecture to infold into its abstract surfaces all manner of formative forces from all manner of generative fields, digitally rendered virtual, thence to unfold them again, across an interval of construction, into body-events occurring on other levels and scales.lvi The digital is the most intensive architectural matter of all.
	Gilbert Simodon, the philosopher of relational individuation whose thinking is most thoroughly topological, speaks of the human body itself in terms of transduction.lvii Within the envelope of the body – or the "film" of the skin, as Bergson called it – lies a hierarchy of nested levels of innumerable proto-actors collectively composing the physical body. Each level constitutes a subsurface producing integral effects proper to its own level. These effects constitute expressive subgestures doubling the multiplicity of the proto-actors populating that level, or stratum. The sub-integral effects feed up the strata, peaking in affective expression-events,  issuing in the whole-body overgestures that we recognize as our actions. Hunger, for example, integrates a multitude of micro-events, physiological and psychic, and both in interfusion, in the global action of seeking or denying oneself food. Perception is the dynamic form doubling the body's actions as a whole.lviii It is the abstract surface of inscription for whole-body affect and action, in their expressive connection to each other, summing up in a single issue the teeming undergestures that percolate through the body's consituent levels. 
	The surface of perception is an abstract membrane. Bodily subgestures fold out across it, into the overgesture of action. At the same time, in lock-step, the process folds back in-across, in an affective reflux returning the action to its source, readying another go. The folding-in takes the form of memory and habit, and their joint production, anticipation, all affectively tinged and weighted. Memory, habit, and anticipation bathe the entire multi-level architecture and all its component proto-actors with differentials of potential. The differentials are between the affective tinging of various elements, and the way that variable weighting tips the traces of present, just past, toward the future. The differential between the past and the future is the primary differential. It marks all of the elemental proto-actors, defining them as tendencies, needs, or desires – future-facing dynamics conditioned by the past. These come in crowds, in tension with one another. The differential between the tensions energize the coming iteration. The next whole-body step is the the working out of their tensions, their resultant. Their resultant expression vectorizes life's generative field, orienting its coming issuings into action in the ongoing expressive movement of variation that is life. These energizing, vectorizing differentials are abstract formative forces: a differential sets in between. It has no form but that betweenness, which is nonsensuous. It has no concrete form. It is purely abstract;  so abstract that the formative activity is largely nonconscious. These differentials compose the virtual field of emergence for life's taking integral dynamic form. They in-form the generative field's issuing, across its many levels and multitude of components, into iterative action-sequences globally addressing the continuing problem proper to life: how to act so as not to die; how best to live.lix
	Part of the significance of Lynn's stadium-wave example is that it opens the possibility of understanding self-organizing body-events which occur on the abstract surface of perception as fundamentally architectural, even if they are ephemeral and purely abstract, doubled by no concrete surface, even if they are hosted by an architectural construction. Architectural constructs can host architectural body-events of the embryonic kind (the as-yet unconcretely doubled kind). Thes embryonic architectral body-events can be spontaneously self-organizing. Although stadium-waves have settled into the stuff of cliché, they most likely originated spontaneously before becoming conventionalized. 
This brings up an important point: architectural body-events, even ephemeral, are subject to capture.lx This is the processual definition of program. An architectural program is a blueprint for the capture of a species of architectural body-events. Architectural genres are preplanned forms of capture. The processual point is that even when architectural body-events are captured, for example when stadium-waves come to be preplanned, consciously led and organized by pre-designated instigators, they still must take. However planned they may be, their proximate origin is the always the affective uptake of the fans' collectively fanning the fandom fires. They don't always take. And even once started, they may fizzle. If they take, their unfolding always has an element of contingency. They may travel to the opposite side of the stadium before winking out, for example. But the again, they might circle all the way around. They might bifurcate into two waves, and the two may cross paths. When this happens, they may move through each other each to continue on its way, or run interference with each other and fall into chaos. However clichéd it has become, the dynamic form of the stadium-wave continues to exhibit self-organizing dynamic-form-generating potential. In their ability to "choose" to take or not, to continue along different paths, to converge and diverge, to resonate or interfere with each other, stadium waves display topological vitality that is not unblob-like even though its visible manifestation and the field of its emergence are entirely different. The same is true for an architectural construction realizing a program in a given genre of building.
	Lynn's proposition is less that topological architecture is a new kind of architecture. It is that architectural process is topological, always and everywhere, from generative top to bottom, field to field, program to genre. As a design practice, it is always in the business of in-folding forces of its outside, feeding on generative field conditions more radically open than any exterior defined relative to a structurally defined interior. The discipline of architecture is naturally allied to complex, self-organizing phenomena of a proto-architectural kind, regardless of what discipline or domain they are native to.lxi Explicitly topological architecture is just this natural tendency, of infolding for folding-out, coming into its own, enabled by new tools and abetted by alternative geometries. The topological in architecture is "facilitated" by the tools of the digital but "not simply reducible to" them.lxii
	Lars Spuybroek generates his own modes of practice that are also explicitly topological, in alliance with proto-forces of the architectural outside. Unlike Lynn, Spuybroek retains a central concern for the perceiving body in its transductive relation to its environment (as witnessed in such projects as Vision Machine and his later theoretical work on sympathylxiii). Spuybroek's transductive process of architectural design continues the continuing problem in an original way: by folding the proto-architectural expressions of digital form-generating into and out of materials-based analogue computing. Spuybroek's architectural practice extends topological design techniques into the analogue world it supposedly left behind. Although Lynn's and Spuybroek's practices are very different from one another, their processes are fellow-travellers in the sense that they both pursue, each in its own way, the transductive deployment of topological thought. Both constitute abstract expressionisms.lxiv
The divergences are a function of the angle of attack. As the foregoing analysis of the body was meant to demonstrate, the concrete surface of architecture and the abstract surface of perception are reciprocals. They fold into and out of each other in many a manner, fusing-forth integral effects, lived as body-events – without in any way blurring of the essential difference between abstract and concrete surfaces. It goes without saying that we do not confuse perception with architecture, or vice versa, even though they bodily interfuse. It is perhaps because of that nonconfusion we don't appreciate often enough the nature of their processual embrace – its dynamic abstractness. Embracing topological architecture is not a question of choosing the coolness of form over the thickness of lived experience. There is no alternative between concrete and abstract. That way of construing it, and the associated deprecatory accusations of formalism often addressed to architects like Lynn, miss the point entirely. The point is that the abstract and the concrete go processually together. The sensible, concrete surface of architecture and the abstract surface of perception, waving with intensive affective matter, on which architectural body-events nonsensuously register, are two facets of the same topological figure. They are in as intimate an embrace as the two sides of a Möbius strip. 
Lynn's work converges toward the surface as his privileged angle of attack. Spuybroek focuses on perception (as do Arakawa and Gins). That difference in approach imparts an angular momentum to the respective design practices that makes all the difference when it comes to their techniques and the terms in which the problem of design is posed and theorized. In the course of Lynn's practice, the question of the body segues into a concern with the problem of the surface.  The concern for the surface in turn segues into a concern for how surfaces perform. For Spuybroek, on the other hand, the question of perception unfolds into an exploration of material potentials, guided by the problem of intensive matter.lxv Lynn's move to surface and then through surface to performance circles the design practice back toward questions of functionality. Spuybroek's work does not of course ignore function, but because of his perceptual angle of attack, function comes wrapped up in the material qualities of experience carried by the ebbs and flows of intensive matter, rather than streamlining into a vector of performance. 
But we have gotten ahead of ourselves.