It is after the construction of the Korean Presbyterian Church that the problem of surface becomes the organizing node of Lynn's work. The word "body" all but disappears from Lynn's vocabulary in the 2000s. The body-event continues to figure, but largely implicitly, wrapped in surfacings. Body-related questions of perception, even of aesthetics, are by no means absent. They resurface in new ways, although not entirely divorced from the traditional concepts of form in the history of architecture. But as always, form is subjected to a decidedly processual twist whose dynamic it is important to understand in order to appreciate Lynn's adventitious relation to the discipline whose interiority he never respected, but which he never rejected. 
	Focusing on the problem of the surface brings with it enormous advantages for a topological architecture. A surface can undergo topological transformations to yield proto-forms that can be scaled and adapted to feed forward into any genre of architectural construction, house, office, station, tower, kiosk even. Lynn's projects extend to all of these genres – and beyond (even so far beyond as extraterrestrial habitatslxvi). His design practice from the turn of the millenium encompasses interiors, art installations, household objects like tea sets and cutlery, furniture, boats, and high-performance vehicles. This breadth of design activity is not an eclecticism. It is not a leaping hither and thither at whim. The diversity inheres. All of these divergent lines of development unfold from the same source, which is not an origin so much as a generative matrix for the continuous production of variation. 
As we have seen, the primary design elements are virtual forces. The virtual forces co-compose as differential fields. Architecturally embryonic topological figures arise from the differential fields' playing out. Across their iterations, these proto-architectural figures run into emergent architectural forms. The programming of the fields and their algorithmic runnings in-forms these emergences with performance envelopes that pre-engineer them, function-ready, for transductive relay into the urban field. Taken together, these formative factors constitute the generative matrix of digital topological architecture. None of the formative factors in themselves – virtual forces, differential fields, topological figures, proto-architectural figures, or performance envelopes – have the property of scale. Nor are they fundamentally answerable to formal types, conventional styles, or predefined functions. They are proto- all that. In themselves, are proto-polyvalent.lxvii Form and function emerge through them, and are only then captured by genre typology and style. In themselves, they are pluripotent: they carrying variations amany, enveloped in potential unfoldings. They are the form in which diversity of form operatively inheres. 
All of the varieties of design object encompassed by Lynn's practice inhere in this singularly muliple matrix. Lynn does not skip around eclectically. He systematically returns to this generative field. By tweaking procedures, modulating enabling contraints, and adjoining new channels of continuing – most notably automated milling using computerized numerical control (CNC) – the process is iteratively reoriented toward outcomes answering to the exigencies of specific genres and their requirements in terms of program, or functionalized performance. It is because diversity inheres in the matrixial field that Lynn's design practice coheres in its diversification. In fact, his practice exhibits more consistency, processually speaking, than is typically the case. The focus on surfaces increasingly assumes the responsibility for orienting the playing-out of the cohering diversities' matrixial consistency. 
	We are speaking, of course, of curvilinear surface. A curvilinear surface, in the process of becoming-architectural, is neotenous. Even lifted out of the series of topological iterations to which it belongs to feature as a stand-alone figure, it retains many of its proto-formal embryonic characteristics. It has a natural tendency to resist such traditional properties of architectural form as the frontality of the façade, the structural dichotomy between vertical load-bearing and horizontal elevation, the encasement of a volume by an assemblage of figurally and structurally discrete elements (walls, floors, and roof with clear lines of demarcation between them), modular massing by the accretion of figurally and structurally discrete elements, the rigid volumetric division of inside from outside, the dressing of a surface with cladding, and the overdressing of ornament. All of these distinctions can be topologically smoothed over into lines of continuous variation, making every element a dependent variable in integral co-composition.lxviii This erases what is perhaps the master distinction undergirding not only the typical understandings of architectural form, but almost all classical and modern practices and philosophies of form as well: the structural contrast between the part and the whole.lxix 
	The keyword for surface in Lynn's approach is intricacy.lxx The way in which the relationship between the waving hand-elements of the stadium-wave and the wave's own dynamic form was described earlier provides a gateway to this concept. The wave, it was said, folds the activity of the hands into its own going on. The dynamic form of the wave folds the multiplicity of its constituent sub-wavings into its own occurrence. The overwave's continuous propagation takes up the diversity of the hand-wavings into itself, smoothing over their discreteness. The multiplicity of the hands, the individual of each absorbed into its own gesture, is resorbed into the singularity of the wave. The wave as a whole arises as a fusion of its parts. On their level and in their own materiality, the hands remain discrete. But what is seen, in all immediacy, on the abstract surface of perception, is the global effect of their integration. The unfolding of the effect effectively guides the continuing of the wave's formation, as audience members follow its movement and fall in with it. The effect is felt, nonsensuously, in the register of affect. And it is felt as in some way beautiful. It is an aesthetic effect. The important processual point is that the aesthetic effect of the wave is not separate from its formation. That is to say, it is not separate from the technique by which the wave is composed (in this case, "entrainment"). Not only do the parts fuse into their whole, but the aesthetic plane collapses into the activity of the formative field. The point of collapse, where aesthetic effect and form-generation fuse, is on a par with the deployment of technique. "Intricacy's visual sensibility emerges from technique rather than figuration or content."lxxi
This entails a very different relationship of part to whole than the way it usuall conceived. The part-whole relationship is no longer a structural contrast. It is a contrast, but not between the parts as such and the structure of the whole they compose through their local, part-to-part functional connections. The contrast, rather, is between the singularity of the detail and the stand-out integral effect. But wait: "there are no details per se. Detail is everywhere, ubiquitously distributed and continuously variegated."lxxii What is seen is the everywhereness of the variegation. It is their manner of their coming-together nonlocally that is seen. It is the interfusion of details that is seen – their fusional multiplicity – rather than any structural contrast. The contrast between the details and the integral effect subsists, but at the same time, it disappears into the fusion-effect. This is what is meant by intricacy. As mentioned earlier, you see the overform of the wave at the price of unseeing its details. But the wave wouldn't be there if its details weren't proactively lending themselve to its appearance.lxxiii The local elements composing the wave are seen only in effect. However, they can reappear for themselves with a shift in attention, in a toggle from the plane of the effect to the plane of detail. There is a constitutive "flicker between discrete elements and smooth figural flow."lxxiv The integral perception of the wave envelops this flicker as its condition of emergence, blinking it out into its own surfacing. There is no deep structure to the wave. It consists entirely in its own effective surfacing.
	These principles of intrication came together for the art installation The Predator, a collaborative project between Lynn and the artist Fabian Marcaccio (1999-2000). Fusion was operative in several ways, feeding itself forward through the process, riding on technique. "Two disciplines," painting and architecture, "were digitally fused" into the flow of the installation's taking form.lxxv The first step was the printing of a a large-scale painting on a clear plastic sheet. Procedurally, this is the application of decoration to a surface. But processually, it goes beyond, toward the fusional, because the translucency of the sheets visually melds the color pattern with its substrate. A complexly curvilinear invaginating figure was then topologically designed. The folding of the figure on itself extruded a volume from the surface. Surface folded into structure, flatness folded out into volume, fusing the two dimensions into each other, completing the overcoming of decoration. The surface was then decomposed into over 250 sections. This was done to decrease the manufacture costs of the final form by dividing it into segments that could be easily milled and handled. The design process flowed directly into the manufacturing process by means of CNC, as foam molds were milled from the digital files. The sections of painted sheet were then vacuum-heated to fuse to form of the molds. The resulting figural elements could then be assembled into a concrete 3D construction of the topological figure of the installation. To say that the figure was "assembled" is inadequate. The fitting together of the figural elements did not just add up to a structure. "The interrelations between elements [became] intricate."lxxvi Beyond a structured aggregate of elements, this produced an interfusion: the "harmonic and dimensional interdependency of components one to another."lxxvii It is in this interdependency that the figure consists. The figure takes off from its concrete conditions of emergence into its own harmonically co-composed appearing, one with the mutual belonging to each other of its contributory elements, to collective effect. This is the final, perceptual fusion crowning the technical accomplishment of the form. The concrete figure doubles itself with an abstract surface embodying the intrication of its elements in the event of perception. 
	Traces of the manufacturing technique – the tool paths left by the milling – remained engrained in surface. These reactivated at the level of the perceptual figure's taking off into itself as additional factors of its formation. "The geometry of these tool paths is intricately related to the shape of the surface so that undulations in the pattern highlight and reflect the undulations in the form itself. In this manner an intensive decorative pattern emerges from the shape itself."lxxviii There is indeed a certain decorative dimension to the perceptual effect – a novelty in Lynns work that came into effect with the Predator project and remained an ongoing interest from that point onwards.lxxix But this decorative dimension is "intensive": it inheres in the cohering of the elements. It cannot be separated from the effect of their interdependency. It does not stand as a discrete element that has been applied. It co-inheres, integrally in-folded, adding not a discrete feature but rather a holistic "highlighting." What it highlights is the effective relationality enveloped in the figure's fusional multiplicity. The decorative perceptual effect here is not working for itself. It is doubling genesis, making the intricacy of its many-fusioned emergence felt.
Rather than an add-on, the decorative effect is an integral overexpresson of the intensity of the relationality of the figure's matrixial genesis. If it "adds" anything, it is an overtone unfolding from the same in-folding constitutive of the figure as a whole. The decorative dimension is an extra-effect of the figure's integral expression. What it highlights is the sense of the abstract surface's doubling of the concrete surface. It brings the figure's taking-off from its concretre conditions out further, abstractly extending the abstract surface into the space surrounding the concrete surface deployment of form. In a word, it adds "atmosphere": an affective expression expressing the expressiveness of the abstract surface, at once immanent to it and emanating from it. Affective atmosphere is what Walter Benjamin would call an "aura," or what Whitehead would call an "affective tonality."lxxx It extends the expressed interfusion of the elements into a perfusion of the surrounding space. It is an aesthetic extra-effect, an affective emanation that some call beauty. It is not reducible to form, but rather adds to it an epistratum. It epistratically diffuses the intensity of the process of the emergence of form into the surrounding space. This adjoins to the concretized form an atmospheric associated milieu whose appearance is at once purely perceptual (an abstract surface) and at the same time inhabitable (spatializing; affectively-aesthetically diffusing into a milieu that can be moved through). 
	The decorative effect of the machined tool paths is most wrapped up with color (yet another fusion). The process has returned, in processual analogy (as opposed to imitation and metaphor), to something that is found in "almost any plant or animal pattern," namely: "a correspondence between a change in surface and a change in pattern and texture. The pattern is neither simply projected nor applied, nor is it gridded and extrapolated. The pattern and texture is intensive to the shape. This fusion of shape, color, and texture into a synthetic and mutually expressive continuity has been our ambition for the use of color and materials ever since."lxxxi This new extension of expressive continuity into a play between color and machine-tooled texture has been deployed in Lynn's work across the board at every scale, from the Alessi tea sets to the building complex of the Ark of the World (2002-2003). The co-belonging of these projects to the same architectural matrix is betokened in the official name of the Alessi designs: the Alessi Tea and Coffee Towers (2003) and the Alessi Tea and Coffee Piazza (2000).lxxxii
	The extra-effect of affective atmosphere related to the use of color carries out its own function, of a sort. It operates as an attractor – not unlike the basins of attraction wooing the on-screen particle clouds of other projects. This is where the perceiving body, the individual body of inhabitation, reenters – in multiples. After all, this is an art installation, offered to the public's for its passing inhabitation. Crowds cloud around. The perfusing of the surrounding space by the "decorative" affective effect creates a pull towards the figure as a whole. Pulled in toward the figure, the attention of the perceiving body flickers to the level of detail, bringing out the intricacy of the composing elements' interdependency – but momentarily losing the overall effect. The attention then flickers back to the figure as a whole, only to be lured by the next pull of the intricacy of the compositional activity of the details insisting on itself. This is also a flicker between the figure's concrete emplacement as the seat of detail, and the holistic diffusion-effect of the figure's affective filling of the surrounding space. The effect is a certain animatedness, in which the body of the visitor shares. The body is led, pulled on a flickering leash, into an ongoing oscillatory exploration of the figure. The body moves, around the figure and into its invaginations. In the course of this exploratory ambulation, the figure incrementally unfolds its integral expression in an improvised variation. This will occur differently for each individual body, creating something like a probability distribution, in part determined by the predilections and attentional habits of the attendant bodies. The figure's perceptual peaking will be composed and recomposed by the milling of the bodies. Through the crowd, the singularity of the figure forms its own multiplicity, any number of versionings of itself intricated in its public cohabitation.
	An affective pull of this kind places the body in a mode where activity and passivity interfuse. Being lured is not a fully intentional act on the part of a subject. But neither is it a passive surrender. The body lends itself to its being led. It actively surrenders to it, in the form of following. The body takes the lead of its own attraction, following the lure. What ensues is a collaboration between the body's appetition and the figure's beckoning. Activity and passivity fall into a a zone of indistinction. There is only one word for that zone: animatedness. Animate architecture doesn't have to make its constructions literally move, because even without them moving it can animate the body. The way this occurs requires, once again, rethinking what a body can be.