In the event, the body is acting as a flesh-and-blood cursor, incrementally refreshing the figure's integral appearing, adding a flickering variation to its expression. The body's  movement coincides with the recomposition of the figure, in a live iteration. The moving body becomes one with the composition of the figure. The interfusion of activity and passivity conditions a transfusion between the body and the figure, as they operative overlap in the zone of indistinction. The life of the body extends, through the medium of the affective atmosphere swaddling the figure, toward the concrete surface of the construction. The concrete surface describes the limit of the event: the point beyond which the body's extension does not penetrate, deflected instead into lateral movement following the topological spread of the figure's undulations. The figure, for its part, is reanimated – brought back to compositional life in a further iteration continuing its formation. This two-way movement of mutual extension is a transductive relation. The figure folds out into the life of the body, as the body's movement is infolded into the composition of the figure, becoming a formative force for its animate form.
	Another way of putting this is that it comes to the same to say that the concrete surface of the installation perceptually extends into the surrounding space to in-form an atmosphere of inhabitation, and that the body's movements come to indwell the abstract surface of the figure. The body is operating, in the figure's furthered formation, as a cursor refreshing its appearing. The body is figuring as a vector of the figure's actualization in a new variation. The figure's taking-off into its own integral appearance and the body's coming to it in perception are one. The body, its perception, its appetites, the movements they actuate, becomes intricated with the figure, operatively fused with it. In the final analysis, there is but one abstract surface, formed of the interfusion and transfusion occurring in the relational in-between described by the polar limits of the concrete surface of the construction and the film of the body. Perception is not in the body. It is not in a subject inhabiting the body. It is on the abstract surface, indwelling its reactualization. Perception is nothing more or less than a generative movement on an abstract surface that is one with its own appearing. Perception is a surface effect. lxxxiii  Even – perhaps even most intensively – when it extends itself into a surround. 
As we learned with the stadium-wave, the dynamic form of the transfusional surface effect can be considered with no exaggeration to be a body. The abstract architectural surface itself is a nonhuman body – an examplar of what in his earlier work Lynn would have called an "inorganic body."lxxxiv The concrete surface of the construction provides an enduring take-off site for the iterative taking-form of ephemeral architectural-body effects. It becomes a storage site for the varying repetition of ephemeral body-events. The notion of dynamic form as involving the perceptual perfusion of the abstract surface in a transductive zone of interfusion was already implicit in the example of the stadium-wave through which the concept of the architectural body-event was developed earlier, as well as in the statement that blobs carrying on on screen, in the unseeemly manner to which they are accustomed, qualify as bodies. Manner is a key word. There are all manner of bodies, concrete or physical (bounded, volumetric, corpuscular) and noncorpuscular or abstract (superficial, energetic). There is an asymmetry in the "and." Physical bodies, as Simondon said, live at their limit:lxxxv where they peak onto an abstract surface whose matter is affect. In this sense, abstract-surface bodies can be said to envelop physical bodies, in affective wrapping.
	Understanding perception as a function of the architectural surface provides the non-phenomenological approach to the body that Lynn's architectural design process requires. It allows the physical body and its perceptions to be reintegrated into the design process. But at the same time, it enables that reintegration to occur in what might seem an oddly peripheral manner, as a function of surface concerns. In project descriptions, perceptual effects are mentioned with a nonchalance that seems to belie their integral contribution to the design process. Mention is made of their infolding into the topological variations populating the process, in the guise of virtual forces programmed into the generative field; as is their outfolding into a superficial taking-effect of that formative influence, defining the way in which the process continues into the built form (as described in relation to the Korean Presbyterian Church). 
In Lynn's practice, techniques proliferate for the emergence of proto-architectural elements providing the taking-off points for architectural body-events which include as one of their dimensions affordances for the physical body. These result in nonstandard fusions between architectural elements and types on the one hand (the Room Vehicle, 2012, being the epitome),lxxxvi and architectural surface and perceptual surface on the other. For example, the technique of finning returns in the X-Ray Wall shelving system that was Lynn's contribution to the 2000 Venice Biennale of Architecture. Here, the fin assemblage combines "varying modules" in a way that "integrates structure, envelope and domestic landscape into a single system" composing an architectural-surface overgesture. "A single surface is reponsible for structure, lighting, aperture, and spatial inflection" as "the striations of the CNC tool path [become] modulations of light, reflection, and translucency."lxxxvii Many new geometric techniques are added to the menagerie of proto-forms, already populated by particle clouds, splines, and blobs, to multiply the potentials. "Blebs," for example, are curvilenear surfaces composed of networks of curves which sometimes whorl around each other to form pockets constituting proto-interiors.lxxxviii 
Even while the body and its movements continually resurface in the mention of things like lighting, aperture, and spatial inflection,lxxxix the concept of body is never again appealed to explicitly. And why should it be? Saying the word would just cause confusion. Inorganic, nonhuman bodies are difficult for organic, human heads to wrap their heads around. Body talk would just bring phenomenological misunderstandings back in force. This is not a loss of the body, because surface talk implicitly includes both kinds of bodies: the inorganic nonhuman body that is the dynamic form of the architectural body-event, and the organic human body that serves as one of the conditioning limits, in transductive relation to the concrete surface of the event's construction. Talking about surfacing is just a shorthand for talking about bodying. Techniques for one are techniques for the other. Which means that the converse is true: speaking about the body is speaking about surfacing. "Dynamic form" is a handy synonym for this mutual inclusion. The term "embodied" cognition as applied to this is something of a misnomer. The "surfacing of experience" as a bodying would be the more accurate way to say it. When Spuybroek or Arakawa and Gins speak of the perceptual body in ways that suggest embodied cognition, they are figuring the body as a co-generator of emergent dynamic forms rather than as a receiver of already-constituted static forms. This is a way of speaking about the intetgral abstract surface of archtectural becomings-body in other words.