As earlier noted, Lynn's project for a processual architecture of animate, or dynamic, form erases the notion of the origin. The process is iterative, returning serially to the same generative matrix (most broadly, that of topological transformation, as underwritten by differential calculusxc). For each serial unfolding, forces of the outside are folded into the matrix, as instantiated in the generative field as it composes for the coming iteration. The differentials composing the field are disposed in such a way as to energize the matrix with a certain vectorial orientation (toward the issuing into actions within a performance envelope, or to put it in more directly, remaining within certain operational parameters). The in-folded forces thus fold back out in proto-architectural form, to meet their cousins in the wider world and interfuse with them (for example, patterns of urban circulation in the Port Authority Bus Terminal project; valencies of the landscape in the Long Island House; spiritual forces in the Korean Presbyterian Church; appetitions of attention and lurings of movement in Predator). It is in view of this encounter that Lynn defines his project in terms of adventitious alliance rather than in terms of filiation, with its reverance for origins.xci 
Architecture, it was argued earlier, is less a discipline than an open field of practice formatively infolding foreign practices belonging to any number of domains. Understood in this way, the processual "generosity" of what was characterized earlier as "affirmative" architecture consists in creatively allying itself with other processes, and loving it – geometry, engineering, interior design,  and urbanism being the obvious candidates, but also including the dreaded client preference. Lynn's practices of alliance are particularly promiscuous, and increasingly so, spanning Hollywood animation (from which he imported the topological software tools that launched his process on its deformational way), installation art, graphic design, aerodynamics, sail design, and high-performance vehicle design.
	 At any moment, the process can turn back on itself, fold back in, and start over again, reenergizing the generative field for a renewed iteration. Every stop is a potential return and recontinuation. The generative matrix accompanies the process. It is present potentially at every step of every run – requiring only a cut to continue again, a stop to rebegin. This does qualify the matrix as a certain kind of origin, but one whose nature is in displacement: a vagrant origin that follows the movements of its offspring like a wandering spirit – without actually going anywhere, because it is more that their process that returns to its always accompanying virtual ubiquity. Simondon solemnifies this kind of origin with the official moniker of "absolute origin."xcii
	In its own way, this leads back to the idea of filiation. The successive iterations that spring from a recursive return to a generative matrix are processual siblings. An absolute origin expresses itself in recursive filiation. Lynn adopted recursive filiation in his Embryological House Project (1998-1999). As it settled into his practice as a favored technique, he began to speak in terms of families of forms.xciii The siblings composing families of form come in litters. Rather than concentrating on one form and continuing its variation, the matrix is made to self-iterate right off the bat, running out batches.xciv A profusion of forms exfoliates in one iterative stroke, exploring large swathes of potential permutations. For the Embryological House, large numbers of permutants were produced.xcv Once the permutations are born, individual litter-mates that seem particularly proto-architecturally convivial to a wedding with forces of the outside (such as site conditions), and in a way favorable to the program, may then be remanded to a continuing topological evolution. Alliance cannot exist without some form of filiation, for the simple reason that it needs populating. There needs to be a generation of elements of alliance. The absolute origin of recursive filiation is the form of filiation adequate to the generosity of outside alliance. It constitutes a movement of filiative involution conditioning the unfolding of the allianced evolution of forms.xcvi
	Proceeding in a family way brings with a number of benefits for topological architecture. For one thing, it telescopes the concern with intricacy into the fundamental running of the process. "Details and components can be defined both individually and collectively at the same instance,"xcvii such that there is "return of the whole and intensively defined part."xcviii Here, the fusional flicker between part and whole that defined the experiential intensity of the Predator surface is fully integrated the form-generating technique itself all along the line, rather than setting in at the end across the traces of the tooling. The unfolding of technique is less stratified here than in Predator, the cuts between its phases less sharp. Formation and perception, process and product, smooth together more, falling more into continuity with one another. In that sense, the expression of the process is more intense. Recursive filiation furthers intensive continuity. 
	A benefit is that this approach operationalizes mass customization. The streamlining of the technique overcomes the opposition between mass-production and custom-tailoring. This creates economies that take curvilinear design out of the architectural stratosphere and make it generally affordable. The direct feed-in to CNC milling is the great economizer. The end-forms can be sectioned, as was done with Predator, milled with CNC, and then assembled. This gives techniques predicated on topological continuity, not so long ago the province of the international archtiectural elite, the democratizing practical advantages of modularity. The CNC tool-paths may be used again, as in Predator, to crown the fusion of form-generation with atmospheric aesthetic effect. Because they share the same basic generational matrix, different projects can be promiscuous, coming together in a family way, across their differences. 
All of this increases the robustness of topological architecutre, and adapts it to contexts from which it was formerly excluded. Part of the motivation for the Embryological House was to provide the possibility of low-cost housing (including post-disaster emergency housing) that could be tailored to individual, cultural, or contextual variations without the cost premium usually associated with customization. In addition, the process can be scaled, applying these benefits across the spectrum of design, from small household objects to large buildings. Architecture fans out across the continuum of design.