The result of this approach is a streamlining of architectural design, as the fusions and continuings-across discussed at many a turn in this account are telescoped into even greater processual solidarity. This streamlining accounts for the enormous range of Lynn's design activities, which have become so various that it is difficult to give them their due in an essay of this length. What might be mistaken for eclecticism is in fact a sign of increasing robustness, born of tighter cross-consistency among formative factors and techniques. The generalized focus on fusion is literalized as Lynn has moved toward the use of high-performance composite materials. These materials, used most notably in aeronautics and boat design, are physically produced through techniques of fusion. A whole new "composite paradigm" replaces the traditional tectonic paradigm.xcix The composite paradigm is characterized by "a shift from assemblage to fusion" in terms of the basic logic informing the process, down to the basic production of the materials in which the design will concretize itself.c With fusion, approached recursively, comes fissionability. Any element, form, or technique can become an reentry point into the form-generating process, providing a virtual infinity of angles of variational return to the accompanying origin, multiplying design flexibility many-fold.
	The streamlining of the composite paradigm bifurcates in the direction of high-end products. High-performance design becomes another prong of Lynn's practice, integrated with the techniques enabling mass-customization but addressing a very different market. Fueled by fusion, Lynn's practice takes a turn toward the design of high-performance cars and motorcycles.ci Never one for mutually exclusive variations, Lynn, the affirmative artisan of mutual inclusion, sees no contradiction in working both ends at the same time, as outgrowths of the same process – the high-end market of high-performance vehicles and the lower-cost end addressed by projects like the Embryologial House.
	Lynn explicitly marks the composite paradigm as a turning point, in self-critical terms that distances him from his "folding in architecture" persona of the 1990s. This is no doubt in large part to the enduring reputation as the blob guy that still dogs him in some quarters, despite the tremendous diversification of his design activities and techniques. It is not that he leaves behind any of his techniques, let alone topological architecture as a whole. He is a collector and cross-contaminator of techniques. The blobs melt into the crowd of proliferating techiques, but they don't necessarily disappear from use. Every technique is always in reserve, ready to recur. The concern for performance itself notably recurs to the boat hull discussed in Animate Form, whose form stores toggles between performance settings in its own form, as well as to the fins of the Korean Presbyterian Church.cii The turn in Lynn's practice is not a renunciation of his curvy topological past. The self-critique concerns a specific processual strategy, rather than any set of techniques or the topological approach as such. That strategy is "form-finding."ciii
	Form-finding is sometimes related to an adherence to a strong version of emergentism. It may involve the faith that the process, once virtual orienting forces are programmed in, will run all on its own, producing an end result that can just be cherry-picked by the designer. This is a bit of a caricature, but it expresses something about topological architecture: it can potentiate laziness. Lynn laments that it enabled "designers to pray, wait, invisibly guide, and/or filter the results hoping for a happy accident that might resemble a design decision."civ This "unguided design" strategy gave topological architecture a bad name, leading to a stylistic monotony that many commentators have complained about. Designs can ending up looking more like a curvaceous catalogue of the special effects that a particular, recognizable software system can produce than a creative expression. High-performance design requires that the abstract virtual forces entering into the generative field be materialized in a concrete physical field, for example a wind tunnel in aeronautic design. When Lynn criticizes the "unguided design" that he feels he himself fell for more than he should have, he is not advocating a return to the omniscient author, the architect as god of design. He is saying that the process must be tested by the outside physical forces to which its end-result will have to answer: that it be guided more tightly by a recursive relation to outside force fields, outfolding into them and integrating their guidance in return, as the form-generation narrows itself down to just the right performance envelope. In other words, he is advocating for a tighter integration between the design potentials of abstract and concrete forces, working in concert. Spuybroek, for his part, will make the strategic choice to embrace the form-finding approach, taking off from the work of Frei Otto. In Spuybroek's work, the exploration of intensive matter will ensure that his process does not fall into "unguided design." The back-and-forth between digital and analogue computing ensures the integration of abstract and concrete forces. Intensive matter is to Spuybroek what recursive filiation is to Lynn. 
	Lynn's love of high-performance vehicles, boats, cars, and motorcycles, is not a sideline. It is an integral expression of his architectural process, streamlining itself to the maximum. Looked at from another perspective, this can be seen as a taking of architecture to its limit. This is the point at which architecture has infolded its own outsides into its disciplinary "interior" so integrally that it can now easitly stretch itself between a tea pot and a BMW, in an self-stretching exercise in disciplinary yoga. The tea pot, while not a traditional architectural object, can at least find a place inside an architecture. The high-performance vehicle takes to the road. Its curvaceous form hugs to the highway curves, wedding its movement to the topography. The high-performance bifurcation of Lynn's architectural practice sets architecture speeding into the landscape, careening toward parts unknown. It takes off on a line of flight, one integrally extruded by the architectural process's saturation with its own expressed potential. The line of flight is an ulterior limit to the process, immanent to its self-running. It expresses its furthest possible reach, like a pseudopod extruding a supple body into an exploratory tentacle, extending its performance envelope beyond its bounds. 
	The limit can always be pushed farther. The landscape is not the final frontier of architecture. It is only natural that affirmative architecture affirm the firmament beyond, launching itself toward the ulitmate outside of outer space. Lynn's flirting with extraterrestrial designcv and science fiction writingcvi are no more sidelines than vehicle design, and are not mere flights of fancy. They are architecture performing its potential integrally out of bounds.