A one-word question: politics? What I have termed the generosity of the openness of Lynn's process to outside formative forces, and its willingness to fold those forces in as processual collaborators, constitutes an ethics of design. But what of the politics of design? An ethics that mutually includes customizable low-cost housing and BMW design on an equal processual footing elides the question of politics. Must the politics come from outside, critically applied to design process and products? That would invalidate the entire premise of topological architecture, which is predicated on an integral becoming-immanent of any and all formative factors, co-composing toward the emergence of novel form. But where, in the process of topological architectural design, as conceptually shadowed in this philosophical retelling of it, does the political enter in as formative factor? Can the political not fold fusionally in, as the aesthetic did, so that it does not have adjoin itself to the process extrinsically, as an external framing, imposed constraint, or outside judgment, and instead becomes active immanent to the process, as an orienting growth factor?
Lynn is silent on this question. But it is his own ideas of the body that might provide a starting point for an answer. Body-events are never neutral. They are never on an equal footing. Their manner of unfolding from the generative field continues across many an asperity. Their coming to expression straddles many an asymmetry. Most of all, the affective force of their taking integral effect distributes itself unevenly, in a tensional field riven by separatrixes. The open field of life into which the design process flows is, like the generative field of the design process itself, a differential field. In the field of life, the differentials between the design process's basins of attraction and repulsion recapitulate as differentials of economic and cultural access, and in different manners in which the follow-on effects can be further transduced: different degrees and kinds of capacitation or disenablement; different dispositions and tendencies. The affective force of the design effluviates into a complex landscape throughout which its effects are unequally distributed, and qualitatively vary. The transductive process cannot but continue on this, political, level. Iterate that. The topological design process owes it to itself to fold this dimension in to its foldings-out.
The reason why the foregoing account of Lynn's practice placed so much emphasis on the body, acknowledging that it explicitly falls out of the picture all the while charting the ways it continues silently to accompany it, is that the body-event is the port of entry for the political. It is threshold over which the always-already immanence of the political might be given a renewed processual welcome. Extending that welcome would amount to a significant transduction of Lynn's design process, adding a major twist to it that would deform its ethical performance envelope to extend its parameters. 
Given the proto-formal level into which all of the formative forces infold, the question then becomes: what constitutes a proto-political element of design process? How do our processual gardens grow political? The work of Rafael Lozano-Hemmer (chapter 2) has always explicitly integrated political factors. It has fashioned itself a "relational architecture" whose natural environment is the urban field, with due attention to its gradients of power.