Most times, my shadow hovers close, its tip a modest leap away. Not that I can reach it. It shies one step ahead. Although I can never catch up with it, I can easily reach where its end just was (where it now begins). It is perhaps for this that I have never lamented my shadow. I have never experienced it as a negative of my body, wraithlike symbol of a haunting absence to myself. It has always seemed to be just what it is: a projection. Not so much of my body’s outline as its action. Its always beginning where my moving to catch up projects my action one step ahead of itself, in modest measure, on a scale with my body’s everyday gestures. Rather than foreshadowing death, my shadow gives me a measure of my next human step. It casts my coming action in the world. It is the shape of my body in a future tense, penumbra of potential. My shadow comforts me. As long I fail to catch up with it, I know I am alive.
	Today is winter solstice, and things are different. It is the day of the year your shadow is longest. Standing in a meadow, my shadow stretches impossibly long, the full length of the field, far beyond my step. This gives me an uncanny sense of being drawn to the measure of a meadow, my coming action flattened and amplified to a stretch of grass. Now my shadow doesn’t comfort me. It vegetates me. When I step and project a next stretch, I feel that it is the meadow that has grown in my motion. I take on the meadow’s inhuman stretch, as the meadow takes on the future-cast of my animation. I am an ambulant spread of weed. I vegetate the world.
	When Rafael Lozano-Hemmer projected amplified shadows of participant’s bodies on the façade of a 350-year old arsenal in Graz (1997), he created a technological solstice stretching the measure of the human to the scale of what we can build.i When he programmed the shadows to disclose within their contours a live internet discussion on the concept of “Fear” involving participants from around the world, he solsticed us again, stretching our body-cast potential to the scale of what we can network at the scale of what we can build.