Lozano-Hemmer entitled this shadow work “Re:Positioning Fear” and named the interface “Tele-absence,” “defined as the technological acknowledgement of the impossibility of self transmission ... the celebration of where and when the body is not.”ii If you think of the shadow in the way just suggested, as casting “absence” as a potential next action, the “where and when the body is not” becomes “where the body may relay,” and “the impossibility of self transmission” becomes a reminder that every stretch of the body is not just a spatial displacement of it but a becoming. A body cannot transmit itself. But it can project its vitality. Its activity may take on new dimension. Seen in this way, “tele-absence” is perhaps not so different from “telembodyment,” the term relayed into in later work of Lozano-Hemmer.
	In designating “telembodyment” as the desired effect of “relational architecture” Lozano-Hemmer is going against the grain of the commonsense idea of what a body is – as well as of the pronouncement of its loss which was the signature theme of the “cyberculture” of the 1980s and 1990s which was the dominant context surrounding his work’s beginning. In our everyday lives we tend to think of the body as an object. An object, we also tend to think, is all and only where it is. Just that. Our body, being all that it is where it is, locates our lives. Just there. It anchors us in the particularity of our life environment. Our own small, social world: it too takes on the inescapable weight of a heavy object. To the cyberpunk aesthetic, this weighing down in the body-local was tantamount to imprisonment. The fantasy of jacking oneself into the computer offered a vision of liberation from the body and its weighty social contexts. Dematerialization. The “loss” was alternately celebrated and lamented.
	Lozano-Hemmer is quite clear. The absenting of the body is not what is at stake in his work. It is not the body that is dematerialized but the “environment.”iii This means something very close to another formula he is fond of: “the object becomes performance.” Relational architecture takes the body to be what it performs. What it performs in this work is extending connection to out-of-scale activity.
	Not even the environment is “dematerialized” in the sense in which cyberpunk wished to dematerialize the body. It is not lost, or left behind. All of Lozano-Hemmer’s work takes great pains to bring local historical and social determinations into the performance. But it does this in order to connect them to “alien memories” which concern the site but are uncontainable within its confines. The internet discussion appearing on the Graz Landeszeughaus used the building to connect the forgotten medieval fears of plague and threatened invasion to contemporary fears of a different order and magnitude. These are “decentered, distributed phenomena or syndromes” that are difficult to attribute to a single cause (God’s wrath, the invading Turks), attaching instead to elusive risk factors that can only be grasped statistically. They operate at the extremes of scale: at microscopic levels below the threshold of the human (AIDS, genetic modification) or at a planetary level beyond the control of the State, the largest “local” level of human organization (global warming, transnational migration). Risk is in a mode of futurity. It hangs over the moment without ever surrendering itself to it, ever-present alien. It is an impending you cannot forget: an alien “memory” of the future. In “Tele-absence,” contemporary modes of fear connect across the façade of the building with their historical counterparts: memories of the past, alien by forgetting. Forgetting, not being able to forget; the historical past of the present and the ever-present statistical future; the below and the above of the human scale; the medieval arsenal and the postmodern State ... These connect with each other and with the everyday movements of the body acting in measure with itself, on the ground before the façade and amplified on it, projected into direct connection with the monumental scale of the built and the immeasurably proliferating world-wide network.
	What is “dematerialized” are the limits of the local (its limitation to being all and only what it is). The local features in the performance from the angle of what passes through it: a sweep of times and a zoom of spaces for which the specificity of the site is a way-station. The confines of the local open, without the local disappearing. The status of the site changes. It features as a node in larger, global, movements connecting through it with each other and the body.
	It is for this reason that Lozano-Hemmer will say that he does not create site-specific installations but rather that he stages “relationship-specific” interventions. To say that the environment is dematerialized is to say that it is programmed to host an event of bringing-into-alien-relation.
Distancing the Body