“Tele-” means “distance.” To “telembody” is not to distance oneself from the body – as if a residual self would remain, detached from the vitality of the body. To “telembody” is to embody distances, thereby augmenting the body’s vitality. It is to impregnate the human body with dimensions of action and movement below and beyond what it takes to be its own proper limits.
	This is not a metaphor. It is only the commonsense idea that the body is an object, with the accompanying, reductive belief that an object is single and “site-specific” (only what and where it is) rather than serial and relationship-specific (all the interconnections it can go into) that prevents us from taking telembodyment literally.
	The most cursory phenomenological investigation reveals that a body is not where it is but how it moves. A still body is not one. Albert Michotte: “When the body is motionless ... it simply disappears from the phenomenal world. ... Movement appears to be essential to the phenomenal existence of the body.”iv The body is one only with its movements – which are on a continuum with its sensations and perceptions. The body is what it performs.
	Henri Bergson pointed out that our perceptions are virtual actions. What we see, for example, is already a potential next touch or sight or step. “It is important to keep in mind that the tendency to respond determines the perception,” a later researcher reminds us.v The body is more in the tending-toward than where it is. Vitally, the body exists more in the next step than the one it is now taking, and the step to come envelops the life’s momentum of the countless past steps preparatory to it. The body, in movement, is always “more-than-one.”vi This means that the body’s effective “shape” and “size” continually vary as its perceptions change in mode, scale, direction, and resolution. In its tendings, Michotte writes,
the body appears as a somewhat shapeless mass or volume. There is very little by way of internal organization or connection between the parts. ... Instead of any precise line of demarcation we find a number of regions with extensive connections between them gradually merging into one another. We can with some justification look on the body as a sort of kinesthetic amoeba, a perpetually changing mass with loose connections between the parts, and with the limbs constituting the pseudopodia. ... The “volume” of which the body consists is not limited by a clearly defined surface, and there is no “contour.” ... It necessarily follows that the whole of the kinesthetic field of bodily sensations is filled by the body. ... There can be no question of any distinction between figure and ground ... The limit of the body is like the limit of the visual field – an imprecise frontier with no line of demarcation.vii
	The theoretical implications of this account of the phenomenal reality of the body are enormous – not least, as we will see, for the way it extends the body beyond its phenomenal appearance. For present purposes, it is enough to remark that work like Lozano-Hemmer’s addresses itself to the “kinesthetic amoeba.” Projecting the shadow of a participant’s movements onto a façade creates an eerie kinesthetic feeling on the wall. If the body’s feeling fills the whole of the kinesthetic field, then the body stretches onto the wall, where the eeriness is. “Not limited by a clearly defined surface,” tendentially unconfined by the “contour” of the skin, it is free to stretch its limits to the built surface. There, its amoebically extended movements mix with others’ words. Through the words, local concerns of participants in Graz and across the globe, along with alien memories past and future, expressing a plethora of similarly telescoping tendings, fall within the body’s amplified field. On the wall, the body’s “volume” merges movingly, verbosely into other tendings. No assignable boundary between figure and ground, just a surface of tendential fusion. What  is “performed,” literally, is the creation of a collective body, in pseudopod fusion, like microbe sex (with words for genes).
	I microbe the world (and the world microbes me).
	What fun is a meadow anyway?
	The pseudopod is a better model of the technological supplementation of the human body than the old cybercultural model of the “prosthesis.” The active fusion of microbe sex is a better model for the more-than-one of the technologically augmented human than the representational confusion of “simulation” (another ubiquitous theme of the 1980s and 1990s).viii