The word “fusion” requires another vocabulary check. Digital media are commonly spoken of in terms of “connectivity.” Michotte says that the tending body is without specific organization and without connection. At each step it reconnects differently with the world. With each connection, it modifies its posture toward the world, inflecting its tendings, adding memories and impendings, modulating its capacities and desires, stretching itself across a different range of dimensions, remixing in live performance a varying selection of the available registers of life activity. Moment to moment, it reorganizes its living in the world. It becomes through its reorganizations. The reality of the body, at any given moment, includes the potential to make a next connection differently. This potential carries across the connections, in-forming each in its incipiency with the tendency a next step is coming to express. The body is without any specifiable order of connections, because at each one it is amoebically astraddle any number of them, extending through into its own potential.
The body is thus more-than its connective organization at any given moment. It carries through its movements a surplus “charge” of organization to come. At any given moment, the body is more-than any particular connection it is in the process of making, and it is even more-than the sum total of the connections it has made. A body is also the surplus charge of coming connection it carries forward. To say that the phenomenal body has no particular organization and is without connection is to say that it exceeds its own phenomenal existence. In the about-to-come of each moment, in each gestating tendency, the body is its own dynamic openness to new connection and re-organization. It is its own capacitation for what’s coming. In its dynamic openness and as its capacitation, the body’s potential organizations and connections are all immediately present to each other, mutually included in the moment’s gestation. They are integrally fused in the intensity of the tending just now taking individual shape as the determinate step it soon will have been. The fusional intensity is integrally felt. Since that feeling envelops, more or less vaguely, what is not present (present only in potential), it couches the body in abstract realms of its own extension, in a more-than of its phenomenal appearance. The kinesthetic amoeba is the phenomenal body integrally self-abstracting, ahead of itself, at a potential distance from where and what it is. Here, it surfaces across the architectural façade, become interface, in a becoming-body event of the kind discussed in chapter 1. 
It would be a misake to equate this fusional intensity with a “feeling” in any sense we might be tempted to qualify with the word “mere.” It is not a mere feeling, as in a mere fantasy or mere subjective impression. These “meres” connote irreality. The charging of the moment with an integral life potential is not only real. It is the body’s charge of reality: surplus reality. Not mere, more: a reality of the more-than of one’s embodied self in movement and becoming. More wrapped up in feeling than can be merely felt.
Simondon calls this the body’s charge of “preindividual reality.”ix “Infraindividual” is even better because Simondon's “pre-” is not a marker of chronological order. The surplus charge of becoming accompanies each step’s performance, and feeds forward across the stepped series it helps compose. The preindividual is less a separate instant in a linear chronology than an accompanying dimension of reality’s formation internal to each’s moment’s coming to be. The body continually folds fusionally back into the infraindividual dimension of its dynamic reality at the same time as its life’s steps  stretch out into the individuality of their occurring. This process doubles the phenomenal body with the dynamic form of its becoming.
As Simondon indicates, it is more precise to think of this topologically – in terms of stretching-folding for variation – than chronologically.x Think amoeba, stretching-folding, in ongoing variation. Think pseudopods formatively stretching forth then folding back to dissolve again toward the formation of a next step, the dynamic contours of a life’s activity morphing from moment to moment, from step to changing step, recapacitating, reorganizing, reconnecting. Re:Positioning. Think telescopings between scales, surfaces, and registers of activity. Think the body shadow-stretching onto the surface of a building, really-not-merely feeling its potential kinesthetically fill with words and mate with their extending potential. Think Graz and plague. Think now, then, and again. Think memories of the past and alien memories of the future, immediately present to each other.
The kinesthetic amoeba is the reality of the body’s performative, reformative folding into the stretch of its potential. The word relation is better for this than connection. The kinesthetic amoeba is the body’s relation to its own potential’s performative playing-out: dynamic self-relation, in it for the stretch. The specific connections the body enters into selectively express the ongoing of potential, enveloped in the determinate shape of a taken step. With each move, the body’s self-relation extends itself down its path through the world. The dynamic self-relation is, in addition, at same time and in the same act, a relation of the body’s potential to its extensive expression, pseudopodically afoot in the world. No “mere” here. If anything, a doubly real: relation of relation. Integral self-relation extending into relations between discrete steps in a performative, reformative world of proliferating paths.