M.M. Bakhtin: “The components of the aesthetic object of the given work are ‘the city’s wide and silent streets,’ ‘the shadow of night,’ ‘the scroll of memory,’ etc., but not the visual representations, not the psychic experiences in general, and not the words.”xi
	There is a misunderstanding of words similar to the misunderstanding of the body as an object. It is the belief that words are inert, general reflections of “psychic experiences,” cognitions or cogitations, which they would represent in the way a visual image is said (equally erroneously) to represent an object or a body. Bakhtin, however, is clear: it is not the “linguistic form” or its reflective content that “enters the aesthetic object” (which in Bakhtin’s account is in point of fact always a performance). Rather, what enters the artistic work is the singular “emotional-volitional moment corresponding to that form”: the eventful reality of the embodiable tendencies, with their attendant affectabilities, that the words present (integrally reactivate and selectively trigger).
	Performatively speaking, words do not represent visual perceptions or reflect general ideas associated with them. Words are perceptions, of a very special kind. A most striking demonstration of this is provided by the phenomenon of blindsight. People with blindsight have been shown to see unconsciously. For example, patients will not be able to see a cup on the table in front of them, but if asked to pick it up will do so without missing a beat. They retain the ability of vision to relay into a next step. They have the “nextness” dimension of visual perception without the visual perception. This is particularly telling when patients are shown words on flash cards. The follow-up step reveals that they not only see the words without seeing them – they read them without seeing them.xii Patients are often only blindsighted in one area of their visual field. If their field of sight is shown a word with more than one meaning, like “bank,” and their blindsight spot is shown another word reducing the ambiguity, like “money” or “river,” their direct understanding of the perceived word will be modulated by the blindseen card. Their next response is oriented one way or the other. This suggests that there is a dimension of word use that imparts orientation or tendency-to in immediate perception – so immediate it needn’t even register in feeling otherwise than in its effects. 
	This "priming," or subthreshold modulation, is very much a part of “normal” perception as well. Blindsight only provides a dramatic illustration of a process native to perception. There is a temporal blindsight at the heart of vision. The “attentional gap” is a hiatus of a fraction of a second after the cresting of a conscious awareness and the rising of the next to replace it. Micro-events occurring in the gap do not register consciously, but as in blindsight they orient what comes. For example, a written word shown so quickly that it falls into the attentional gap will not be remembered. But its affective tenor will register (whether its valence was “positive” or “negative”).xiii This orienting effect also occurs with events on the periphery of attention, which might have registered consciously had the focus been there. The modulation even co-occurs with conscious awareness, without the effect itself being perceived. In these cases, the orienting is like a spin affecting an otherwise conscious activity unawares. Laboratory subjects exposed to a sentence containing the words “Florida” and “bingo,” for example, experienced word-induced premature aging: they walked away from the laboratory building at a rate fifteen percent slower than controls.xiv Affective toning/action inflection: “emotional-volitional.” The emotional-volitional moment of language occurs in immediate, fusional proximity with extra-linguistic dimensions of experience that “blindly,” bodily, inhabit its performance, and to which it owes an effective orientation. It is these dimensions which give language its immediate force for existence: a direct life-altering power.
	Out of the laboratory, in a less controlled, more richly multisensory situation, language’s force for existence – the immediate word-borne coloring of nextness – is multiplied, complexified, and varied. The range of what may spin forth expands indefinitely. The tendency imparted by words heard or seen, or even unheard and unseen, may be as readily a kinesthesetic event of altered pace as a lexical association. It can be a predisposition to touch, as easily as an inflection of affective valence. And – why not? – the triggered tendency might be toward the dawning of a new idea, spun of a suggestive complexity of inter-register experience, rather than the tired acting out of a time-wrinkled stereotype. Bingo!
	Words inhabit perception (as perception is inhabited by action).