The direct inhabitation of action-perception by words has enormous consequences. For interactive art, it means that text can be an immediate ingredient of the performance as such. The presence of text does not necessarily “mediate” experience. This significantly expands the parameters of performance and the field of interactivity – to the limits of language (and its inter-register gregariousness). In a very real sense, words activate their “content” as an ingredient in the interaction. Just without the actual content (tendentially).
	In Whitehead’s words, the direct hit, or “presentational immediacy,” of a word “precipitates feelings” which “enhance” – add a modulation to – the event taking place.xv Peirce calls these precipitate feelings the “material quality” of the experience: feeling in motion, at the “first beginning of a cognition.”xvi “Corresponding to every feeling within us,” Peirce observes, “some motion takes place in our bodies.”xvii The inaugural feeling-motion is pluripotent. In its qualitative aspect, it is the suchness of the experience: its affecive tonality (“how it feels"xviii). The quality is “material” in an energetic sense: a suchness stirring toward an issue in action and perception. Just now, in this very “first beginning” of the experience coming, it has yet to go anywhere or do anything definite. The material suchness of the feeling-motion is the “substance,” or “immediate object,” of the nascent experience.xix Its substantive stirring-toward makes it the sign of the coming action-perception. Whose occurrence it helps effect. Affect. Inflect. Strange emotional-volitional “substance,” this. It would be better to call it an "element," with something of the sense we give the word when we use the phrase "the elements" to refer to weather: a sense of qualitatively changing conditions that are unmistakeably material but lack the separate thingness we associate with substance. Like the weather, there is an elusiveness to the material quality of nascent experience, even in the insistence of its stirring-toward. The sign’s passing into action-perception unawares, in the just-before of the coming experience, gives its inaugural effectiveness the abstractness of a thought. The material quality of the dawning event is indissociably a thought and a sign: a thought-sign.xx The thought-sign as material quality: the body in its element.
The strangest thing: “it is not essentially necessary” that the inaugural feeling-motion of the material quality of experience’s coming be “felt in order for there to be a thought-sign.”xxi 
Felt without actually being felt, thoughtfully passing unawares; directly lived but registering only on the level of its effect; just-beginning what is going on, as yet undone; blinked forward into life’s nextness; materially operative, unappearing … What it all adds up to is a real but abstract bodily experience. Material quality is where thought and body really come together, at the just-stirring again of the “animal body” tending as yet abstractly toward a next-inflected amoebic stretch.xxii
A further major consequence: this forbids any distinction between “raw” experience and enculturated experience – as it does any empirical distinction between the physical or physiological on the one side and the cognitive on the other. Cultural factors associated with “higher” cognitive operations are already materially entering into effect in the attentional gap, in whose inaugural stir they are as already-abstract as they are still-bodily. The feeling-motions of the material quality of coming experience agitate in a zone of indistinction between body and thought. 
Bergson calls these not-quite-yet felt feelings-motions “nascent actions.”xxiii Bergson’s term emphasizes the next bodily step, and its kinesthetic relay out of the zone of indistinction into spun-out movement perceptibly registering. Another term, borrowed from William James, is “bare activity.” xxiv This term emphasizes that experience, in the first flush of its activating as a material quality or thought-sign, is only now barely there. Whitehead, for his part, emphasizes the inaugural abstractness of the barely-there of experience – “it is gone, and yet it is here” – with the term “nonsensuous perceptions.”xxv Nonsensuous perceptions are what “energize” the immediate past for the immediate future.xxvi It is this unfelt engine of experience kick-starting itself into continued operation that contemporary experimental psychology talks about in terms of 
priming.xxvii Plain old “tendency” has the advantage of holding together in a single familiar term the feeling just-beginning with the already-in-motion of the action coming performatively to express it. 
Whatever we call these “thought-signs,” Lozano-Hemmer’s work cues them into action-perception. His work operationalizes the material quality of words. It works to activate language in enactive relation with nonlinguistic registers of experience. First and foremost, comes the kinesthetic: stirring. Agitating: already tending toward a next step, and a touch it may potentiate. Through touch, proceeding stepwise toward a renewal through movement of the field of vision. Operationalizing the material quality of words not only activates language in enactive relation to nonlinguistic registers – it anticipatorily activates those modalities’ relation to each other, in a stirring no-distinction between “raw” experience and enculturated experience.  This bare-active “no distinction” is not the opposite of a determination. Remember: it is the tendency that determines. What is at issue is determination’s pluripotent dawning across registers. Astretch a façade.