Yet another terminological option would be to call thought-signs the “virtual reality” of the life of the body. It wouldn’t be the best option. The term still suffers from the legacy of 1980s/1990s cyberculture vocabulary, for which “virtual” was a synonym for “artificial” and “illusory,” in the sense of standing at a mediated remove from reality, in simulation of it. Material qualities pertain to immediately real yet abstract body events. They are fully and directly real.
Simondon, it was mentioned, dubbed the reality of this dimension of experience self-renewing “preindividual.” The term “infraindividual” was suggested as a substitute to emphasize that the strange time signature of its elusively effectively reality side-steps the psychological time of the individual whose life’s unfolding it tendentially determines. The emotional-volitional reality of the material qualities which are the thought-signs priming life now, for-next, is not psychological. More radically, it is not phenomenal. So immediate it is that it does not appear: here yet gone. 
Material qualities fast-forward themselves into what comes. As operative thought-signs, they inhabit the phenomenal gaps, in precipitate nextness. The life of what Michotte calls the “phenomenal body” is the issue of nonphenomenal gap events: virtual events occurring in the attentional off-beat of experience, appearing only in and as the modulatory effects they precipate. These gap-events are no less real, no less bodily, no less operative, no less tendentially determining, for passing actually unfelt. The scalar plasticity of the proteiform “kinesthetic amoeba” Michotte describes marks the phenomenal limit of the life of the body. The thought-signs, the material qualities, from which the kinesthetic amoeba’s next stretch pluripotently emerges belong to a nonconscious dimension of already-not-quite experience stirring. Experience never quite goes there. It is always already issuing from there, into itself, across a constitutive gap. The virtual events occurring in the gap are not only infraindividual, they are infraphenomenal: effectively unappearing; appearing only in effect. The infraphenomenal is the constitutive limit of life where body is event: where the life of the body is integrally absorbed in the already virtually occurring of what is coming to pass.
It is this infraphenomenal reality, where language in immediate relation with its outside, that give words the immediate power to “enhance” the life of the body.
	“The city’s wide and silent streets.” Consider yourself urbanly enhanced.
“The shadow of the night.” Consider yourself infraphenomenally solsticed.