Levels of action and perception don’t just connect. They mate. The stoking of nascent action-perceptions by words is not an external connection, mediated by an interface, between distinct levels of organization and registers of experience. It is an immediate fusion of them, in infra-relation: the activation of a zone of indistinction between them. They merge into each other, share and exchange tendential properties in a kind of cultural meiosis, then reemerge, each to its own level, at a next unfolding. The levels accordion into each other, then telescope back out at the next beat. Their distinction is rhythmically reborn, step after step, next after last. Like every birth process, this rhythm of reappearance carries the potential for mutation.
	Lozano-Hemmer’s work is designed to supercharge the zone of indistinction. It often primes with words, as in "Re:Positioning Fear." But it also sets mechanisms in place to ensure that the orientation is not only from the words into action (for example, from the words of the online discussion into the action of shadow-scanning a next phrase, or turning to a fellow participant to continue conversation on the ground). The shadow interface in “Re:Positioning Fear” fuses a perception of actual bodily movement with the presentation of words in a multidirectional mating of levels. When a text is read with shadow, as the body stretches to touch a façade with a kinesthesia of word-scanning movement, the registers of experience dance a virtual event, activating each other with pluripotent excess. The experience doesn’t just go from the nonsensuous feeling-motion of the virtual event to an actualization in sensuous perception. Even as the stretch to a next is under way, experience is already retracting into its zone of germinal indistinction. The last step orients the material quality’s orienting of the next on the fly, telescoping the accordioning-out back-infra, in a lasting of nextness. The mating runs as fluently relationally from actual action-perception, experienced in any dominant modality, back into the virtual-event zone of incipient action, as from that zone into determinate action and the accompanying sensuous perceptions. The multimedia format allows an intensification of the mutual meiotic inhabitation of levels of existence by each other, as they fold eventfully into and out of each other.