Potential for mutation: that’s the point. Lozano-Hemmer’s work plays on this multidirectional, pluripotent meiotic fusing of levels of reality to make felt the potential for change. There is no particular political program advanced. The work is not “political” in the sense of sending a specific message or militating for a particular ideology. At the same time, political issues and problems of urbanism are insistently brought into play, becoming part of the concept design of each event. 
“Re:Positioning Fear: Relational Architecture No. 3,” as well as “Displaced Emperors: Relational Architecture No. 2” (Linz, 1997) and “Vectorial Elevation: Relational Architecture No. 4” (Mexico City, 1999), stage aspects of colonialism. The choice of prominent architectural monuments as intervention sites reflects a desire to reinject a breath of collective life back into what Emilio Lopez-Galiacho calls “vampire buildings,” buildings shielded from change by “necrophiliac” heritage protection measures that treat society and culture as collectibles.xxviii Nowhere, however, is a solution suggested. The work is only incipiently political: proto-political. It doesn’t propagandize, instruct, or consciousness-raise. More elusively, it concerns only the potential for change. It makes the potential for change palpable by programming a surface of multidirectional meiotic fusion. It expresses the potential for change, without actually determining what change. It reactivates nextness, without defining which next must be. 
	This might be considered a cop-out. Or it might be considered a principled practice of a different artistic politics: one that does not see its role to inculcate a particular awareness or analysis so as to make certain predefined follow-up actions seem necessary or inevitable. More modestly, this is a practice of programming conditions of incipiency. What might follow is pointedly vague, left tendentially open. It is up to the participants to stoke their own follow-up (or not). The role of relational architecture is not rigidly inculcative, nor even mildly instructional. It is modestly expressive, despite its flirting with the monumental. It expresses changeability – change felt but as yet undefined – through modulatory fusion occurring across the collective surface of a building. The expression is exemplary, as opposed to prescriptive. 
To exemplify is to invoke an indefinite set of instances, each of which is different but which are in a kinship and belong together, in a way that does not need to be spelled out. One example invites to another, and that other another, in a series potentially without end. Each example in the potentially continuing series includes all the others in itself, in that it implicitly presents itself as a variation on them – as they, should they eventuate, will include themselves as variations on the series. To exemplify is to populate the moment with virtual events of repeat-exemplification which immediately belong to each other, in mutual envelopment, even though each is absolutely singular. No two will share all their defining characteristics in a way that would allow them to be subsumed unequivocally or without remainder under the same general idea. The example, contrary to the common assumption, does not instantiate a type. It performs an immediately lived belonging to a lineage of typal variation. To exemplify is to populate a present event of expression with a lineage of virtual events of expression that belong together as kin, with all their differences – as differencings.