It is often asked whether digitally-assisted art combining a number of media is itself a medium. Is the medium of Lozano-Hemmer’s work architecture? Writing? The phenomenal body? “The digital”? “The electronic?” Light? Movement? Silicon? The work involves all of these, but is not couched intimately or exclusively enough in any of them to qualify one as “the” medium. Does this mean that this kind of work is a simple hybrid, a messy catch-all of media? The all-over-the-place eclecticism this implies is not at all in evidence in Lozano-Hemmer’s projects, which manage to produce highly unified aesthetic effect by very mixed means. 
Another possibility is that the mixing of media transposes the medium from the status of material support to that of immaterial result. Perhaps the unified effect, heterogeneously achieved, must itself be considered the medium of the creative process that produces it. In other words, the medium of relational architecture is just what it names, just what it dematerializingly “builds”: the event of fusion. Relation. The sweeping together of times; the zooming into each other of scales; the mating of levels; the pseudopod stretching of amoebic bodies; the arcing of tendencies across sense modalities; the reciprocal inflections of action, perception, and language; the potentially, collectively mutational meeting of all of these across a shared surface, or “interface,” in a state of mutual incipiency; the expressed -ability of this meeting.
	Perhaps performative arts, arts of the event, have as their medium the manner of event they stage – in this case events of relation. If so, they are in the odd, and oddly powerful, position of creating the medium of their expression in and as the very act of expression. The medium happens. It is summoned by its own unfolding event. The medium itself is ephemeral and emergent. This is the mark of the “occurrent arts.”xxix 
	This is taking “medium” in a different sense than usual. Understood in this way, a medium is not a technological or material support for the transmission of a content. The technological and material supports for relational architecture are architecture, writing, the body, the digital, the electronic, light, movement, silicon. In Lozano-Hemmer’s work, by conscious design, they do not self-transmit or transmit something else that might come across as a specific message. What they do is come together. Not only dynamically, but materially qualitatively. When they come together, something happens: a tendential fusion relationally giving next-ability. This effect is not the sovereign province of any its contributing levels taken singly. It happens between them, differentially, in and as their gap-active coming-together. A taking-place in media res.
	That event is always a stretch. The act in which the event culminates, such as the reading of words with one's shadow on a façade, stretches its incipiency out across a fusional field of many a level and of indeterminate expanse. Its occurrence contracts that field of emergence into the punctuality of the act's performing, vaguely drawing its entirety into the region of clarity of its determinate taking-place. Folding out, folding in, in a single two-way movement of integral coming-to-expression in the discreteness of an act. The integral presence of the field of emergence is expressed in the manner of the discrete act: its unique inflection; the just-thus of its performance; its such-as-it-isness; its style. The manner of an act is the dynamic trace of its in-forming by its field of emergence. Its gestural sweeep composes the dynamic unity of the event, in expressive effect. Thus it is a stretch to say that  the medium of an act is the manner of the event it stages: the medium manneristically stretches all along the continuum, from the field of emergence at its most unfolded and more or less loosely encompassing, to the relational tightness of the field's fusional contraction into the punctuality of the act of expression.