Cultural Domain
	
There is only one word for the kind of acts staged in the works of Lozano-Hemmer under discussion here: cultural acts. The specific way in which the stage is set for the act and the manner in which it is performed activates a spectrum of relation into which any number of things factor together. Alien historical memories as close as plague pillar and far-reaching as colonialism rub shoulders with memories of the urban future. The vampirism of the established urban power regime hits up against proto-political stirrings of resistance to it. To name a few. This mutual factoring into the act of that which constitutively exceeds it forms its historically inflected relational neighborhood: the cultural domain it inhabits. The vicinity of the artwork is not simply the city neighborhood in which the art is installed. Processually speaking, the art act's vicinity is the region of relation it contracts into itself and brings to expression.
The cultural domain does not preexist fully formed, and does not have any stable configuration. The wooden concept of cultural-historical "context" is just a stagant still-image of it. The cultural domain is performatively drawn by the cultural act, for its own coming to pass in that vicinity. The cultural domain is co-emergent with the act. With each act it reemerges in a new variation. Companion acts co-occupy it, each with distinctive difference. The cultural domain is an event dimension of the acts' coming to pass in serial variation and processual neighborhood. 
Given the amoebic tendings of the body in its material quality, it is not possible to draw a sharp distinction between the figure and ground of its actions. Nevertheless, it is undeniable that certain alien memories, certain historical effects of the playing-out of regimes of power, certain proto-political memories of the future, are more palpable than others in the vicinity of the cultural act, as a function of the how of the act's staging and the manner of its performance. Some things factor into the act at less of a stretch, pressing in around it. This relational neighborhood does constitute a static background for the discrete figure of the act to stand out from. It constitutes an occurrent background for the act's kinesthetic figuring to amoebate through. The act, as fusional expression, is not reducible to its visible contours. It is seen to extend into the nonvisible, even nonsensuous, more-than of vision. It's dynamic form is the visible envelopment of a more-than what appears. However punctual and clearly occurrent as a gesture, it retains a degree of indiscernibility. The domain of culture is the zone of indistinction of the integral fusional field, as it homes in on the act.xxx Bakhtin's description of the cultural domain is instructive:
A domain of culture should not be thought of as some kind of spatial whole, possessing not only boundaries but an inner territory. It is located entirely upon boundaries, boundaries intersect it everywhere ... Every cultural act lives essentially on the boundaries ... we can speak about [the cultural act in] its autonomous participation or participative autonomy ... that is, in its unmediated ... orientation.xxxi
	There is an “autonomous participation” or “participative autonomy” occurring at an intersection of levels: of thought and feeling, of words and actions, of actions and perceptions, of mutations and organizations. This intersection of levels composes the domain of culture. Except that it is not a domain, in any sense of the term as a spatial whole. The domain of culture has no inner territory. It is composed entirely of the boundary lines of the levels intersecting. At the intersection, the levels edge over and into each other, forming a saddle. The lines composing the domain of culture are not outlines separating off an interior space. They are saddles, thresholds, over which relays may occur. Lines that intersect and overlap compose a plane. A surface. A domain of culture is a surface drawn of different levels and registers of life saddling each other, delineating potential relays, from thought to feeling and back again, or between words and actions, actions and perceptions, mutations and organizations, all overlapping in the material quality of bare activity.
Given the infraphenomenal, nonsensuous nature of the what bestirs bare activity, the domain of culture must be seen as an abstract surface populated by virtual events.xxxii Each potential relay is just that, a virtual event. If the abstract surface of virtual events is a domain of culture, then a domain of culture is more time-like than it is spatial. It is stamped with the attentional time-signature of the gap-acted life of the body. Coextensive with the event of its expression, a domain of culture is energetically co-“substantial” with the emotional-volitional moment of the body’s infraindividual enhancement, run through with expressive momentum. The moment: life primed here-now, for more and again, telescoping/accordioning, lasting/nexting. The momentum: potential relaying among a multiplicity of co-agitating tendencies, in a pluripotence of parturient relation pressing for expressive outlet. In the gap-act, a whole population of variations on what the present act exemplifies are already stirring, vying for expression: companion acts to come.
Each cultural act exemplifies the change-ability of the domain of culture. It makes felt the cultural domain's lived reality as a collective event-"space" for companion acts of variation to gather. Each cultural act virtually populates the present of performance with cultural differencings in potential relay. The pluripotence of the act makes "the" body performing it already several: in reality, a virtual group. A gregarity. The kinesthetic amoeba, gone culturing, extends itself to its own company. Lozano-Hemmer's works set the stage for tele-embodyments of this relational culturing.