Each exemplification of the cultural domain is a cultural act: culture in the act. The cultural act selectively expresses the cultural domain in the shape of a determinate move. The cultural domain, as virtual group or potential peopling, is singularly multiple. The act exemplifying it for the moment can be more or less singled out. It is determinate, a clearly (if not wholly) perceptible instantiation of the cultural domain's continuing variety. It can be more or less singled out in its cultural particularity because of the way its taking place is inhabited by the virtual group. The individual cultural act is a singleton, pregnant with peopling. 
	In “Re:Positioning Fear,” the stage is set for the cultural act through light projection on a concrete surface. The façade of the building serves as a sensuous surface for word-shadow projection. The projection is technically enabled by a digital apparatus. The abstract surface that is the cultural domain of each act arising through the projection cannot be separated from this actual, concrete, sensuous surface. Neither, however, can the cultural domain be reduced to that sensuous surface, or to the content of what is seen on it. The cultural domain is a bare-active fusion between kinesthesia, vision, and words, among many other levels and registers, occurring through the surface of projection; co-occurring with it in another, nonsensuous, event-dimension. The actual surface – the interface – and the abstract surface of the cultural domain double each other. The one a penumbra to the other’s shadow play. The domain of culture composing the abstract surface "enhances" the cultural act that brings it to determinate expression on the concrete surface. The abstract surface doubles the concrete surface only in order to double over into it. It folds itself into the act's unfolding, in-forming it with more than its determinate figure can hold. It virtually infects it. It fusionally infra-effects it. It populates it with neighboring others, almost-present in processual proximity. 
Since the lines that compose the cultural domain are not outlines separating off an interior space, there is no definite line of demarcation between companion others and aliens. Everything is on a continuum. The almost-presence of companionable others virtually co-populating the neighborhood shades into the potential intrusion of the alien. Other/alien: the nondividing line is fine. If you go from neighbor to neighbor, at what point do your neighbors fade off into strangers? The alien is at the threshold. Maybe not yours, maybe not next door's, but who knows for the next after that?
It is the nature of the alien to be always at the threshold, potentially. The cultural act can never purify itself of the alien memories discussed earlier. They are in the paradoxical condition of being in processual proximity at whatever distance, lurking in the folds of the event. Spied from the familiar vicinity of the cultural domain, they are the once and future feared. They are the already-feared unfamiliars, and as-yet unknown future intruders. They are faceless. They extend, plague-like, above and beyond the scale of the human. At the limit of their alienness lies not only the unknown, but the as-yet unknowable: unknown unknowns. Are these necessarily to be feared? Really? Do we have to give Donald Rumsfeld the last word on potential? Doesn't work like Lozano-Hemmer's, in making potential palpable, and by deploying it in an open field of ultimately indeterminate expanse, invite a hospitality toward the unknown of potential, beyond the fold of the cultural domain? Does it not evoke the potential for a culturing beyond cultural community? Can not put the alien on the spectrum, rather than fear it as a specter? 
A summary formula: the cultural act is the embodied taking-place of companionable expression on a continuum with alien memory (of the future).