The cultural domain is an unmediated “participation” of heterogeneous levels of organization and registers of activity in each other, collectively mutually including, in a proximately neighborly way. It is a region of relation. The relation in-forming the domain is autonomous in the sense that the edgy in-each-other of the heterogeneities composing it abstractly doubles the singularity of the coming event with its own self-inflecting potential – with its as-yet unfully determined -ability extending, fold upon fold after fold, across the spectrum to the alien unknown. Once again, given the splay of levels and registers that fuse into continuity with each other in the dynamic unity of the cultural act with which the cultural domain is co-emergent – plagues now and then, invasions, memories of the past, memories of a future, past suffering, future fears, the strangeness of unknown potential, the comfort of community, the constructed local environment, the global network, the online chat, language and gesture – only one adjective can embrace the -ability of all of this to come effectively together: cultural. Culture -ability. Culturability: an autonomous participation of levels and registers in each other, toward the taking-place of a coming cultural act, already almost-there on the abstract event-plane of its own incipiency. 
Culturability stretches from the region of clear expression that is the cultural act to the farthest reaches of the kinsethetic amoeba's multiplex potentiation. It stretches the plane of the cultural domain into a field – an open field, composed of intersectings of boundaries, while being itself unbounded. If the cultural domain is like the moving background against which the cultural act figures, the field of culturability is the ground of the ground: the ground's shading off in all directions into the unappearing. The cultural domain is what Whitehead would call the real potential of the act, in-forming its occurrence. The field of culturability is the shading off of its real potential into pure potential (Deleuze's virtual at its most really abstract). The real potential is the pattern of potentials that enter into close enough processual proximity to the act's occurrence as to palpably propose themselves for its expression, so that the act could be said to have infra-felt them – to have virtually "chosen" from among them to produce itself as their singular fusion, and thus in some sense to have known them, in the dynamic form of its own coming to pass. Pure potential is real potential shading off into the unknown: unknowable for this act, but perhaps not for the next, or another somewhere down the line. Pure potential is the reservoir of real potential, running out to the abstractest reaches of the real. It is the far-real. The aliennest memory of the real. The cultural domain in-forms the act with its real potential. The field of culturability out-runs it with maximally other potential, pure alien potential. 
The cultural act is "participative," partaking. It partakes of the potential of the cultural domain in-forming it. The act’s accomplishment is triggered by a bodily response on the part of a participant to what actually appears on the concrete surface of the interface. That response is interactive. The cultural act, in its surface manner, is interactive as opposed to relational (as is its domain and its domain's open field). The cultural domain potentiates the cultural act. It primes and modulates it. But it does so vaguely, in “dim” nonconscious “apprehension,” shadow of an act, forerun. The priming, or forerunning of the event, does not predefine the coming act in its particulars. That actual bringing to clear expression of the potential, in the form of a specific move, would not occur were its actual appearance not doubled by its forerunning (which simultaneously in-forms the act with real potential and out-runs it to limit of pure potential, in a simultaneous rising of the ground into the figuring of the act and its receding into far-real, ground of the ground). Cultural act, cultural domain, and field of culturability are coordinate degrees of each other. They are not substantially different, but differ by the degree of effective contraction of potential into the actual event's expression.xxxiii
The cultural act is primed by its forerunning, but not predetermined by it. As it actually happens, the act occurs on its own enactive terms. It occurs selectively, fusing a certain bandwidth of mutual inclusion, to consciously perceived effect. The cultural act surfaces in the mode of interaction as a participative autonomy, partaking of potential. As it comes to actual fruition in its own terms, it figures itself interactively. Yet it still “essentially lives” – lives more far-reachingly than its sensuous surface appearance – in the potential domain of its relational infra -ability. Its taking-place is more extensively “relationship-specific” than it is interactively site-specific. The appearing form in which the cultural act surfaces is an interactive response to a sensuous display. But the cultural act is not reducible to the form of its appearance. It has nonsensuous stretch in it, shading off into the unappearing. The cultural act is the tip of the iceberg of its own infra-active potentiation and tendential modulation. It is able to select potential because it participates also in its more-than. It can appear in interaction because it relates. It can have its expressed domain because it also fields what recedes from that expression.
	Culturability: the fielding of relation underwriting interaction at its most incipiently abstract. This is the element of relational architecture in this period of Lozano-Hemmer's work. Culturability is what folds into the cultural act's coming to its own expression as the manner of event it stages: in other words as medium of expression. It is the ever almost-there of the cultural act, in-forming. Culturability is the forerunner of the cultural act: its -ability to come (again). Thought-sign of culture re-coming to figure in relation. 
	We are speaking of art. But is aesthetics relevant here? What would be the aesthetic form of the work of relational art? It could only be the dynamic form of the act of culture’s coming, in an instantaneous sweep across dimensions of event: act, domain, field; response, fusion, far-reaching unbound. The act's aesthetic is the way in which the occurrent domain’s autonomous participation feeds immediately forward into the participative autonomy of its accomplishment. The work’s aesthetic effect is the live feeling of the sweep, replete with real and pure potential: the vitality affect marking its manner of coming to pass.
The relation of the aesthetic effect to the interpretable content of the interaction appearing in words on the wall is the same as the relation of the event as a whole to the apparatus of its interface : neither separable from it, nor reducible to it. Meaningful content, reemergently modulated into a cultural domain and coming out in its expressive acts, is what is commonly called an ideological effect. Ideological effects may well arise as part of the cultural acts of expression enabled by relational architecture. But ideology is not where its politics “essentially lives.” Relational architecture has no inner ideological territory. It roves the boundaries, feeling the impetus for its acts in the forerunning of the abstract surface they compose. It eventfully stretches far afield.