It cannot be said enough: interactivity is not where relational architecture essentially lives. Relational architecture is not an interactive art. It is precisely what it says it is: a relational art. It should be taken at its word. The sensuous, actually appearing interactive response of the physiological body is just the tip of the occurrent iceberg. It is the manner of the event through which the open relational field in which relational architecture essentially lives comes to a surface clarity of expression. The event, as a cultural act, comes through the interaction, in which it peaks. The event is not the interactive response per se, but rather the manner in which the field of culturability has been folded into it, to effect a selective recomposition of a cultural domain.
Interactivity pertains to function: patterned circuits of response; a cycle of actual stimulus and actual response. Relation pertains to the material quality of the becoming body-event: a nascency of feelings-motions, edging each other, just barely felt, if actually at all, on the plane of their mutual inclusion, participating in each other as thought-signs of an event of the culturable kind, virtually stirring toward a coming to pass. On the interactive level, the technological apparatus is mediating: it interposes its stimulus between one response and the next. Relation, on the other hand, is immediate: so fully that it fails actually to register in its full stretch. Relation is and remains infra-. Interactivty is the manner in which the infra- actually peaks. Interactivity remains on the level of possible reaction. Relation is the dimension of potentiating activation. Interactivity is connective: to the apparatus, and of participants across their mediated reactions to the apparatus. Relation is fusional: it mates a heterogeneity levels (including that of interaction itself). Bodies interact as what they are: from the angle of their acquired competencies and habits. Bodies relate from the angle of their life -ability to modulate what they will be : to continue to become, in an act of culture in the remaking. Only a theory of immediation can give this culturing its due.