“Vectorial Elevation: Relational Architecture No. 4” homed in on the  expressive operation of relational architecture. Participants were offered the opportunity to design a light pattern on their home computers, and then remotely activate a searchlight array that actualized the pattern in the night sky above the Zócalo, Mexico City’s main square. Every six seconds the pattern changed. When it did, the searchlight beams would move in unison, criss-crossing in a choreography of light, until they abruptly set into a next position. A kinesthetic ballet in vision.
Tens of thousands of people watched, at home or in the square. What they saw was culturally and politically loaded. The Zócalo is ringed by central Mexican government buildings, and because of that has a long history not only of government, but as a major site of demonstration and contestation against it. The spectators interacted with the apparatus. They could attach messages to their designs on the website archiving them. They interfaced. They gave the event personal and ideological content. But they did not only interact. The interaction accordioned them into relation, from which their accomplished acts of expression telescoped back out. 
“The transitions between positions [of the light arrays] were as important as the positions themselves,” Lozano-Hemmer said.xxxiv It is in the transitions – accordioned into the gaps between stimulus and response – that relation is really, nonconsciously felt. What the project presented overall was less a series of discrete patterns than “a coordinated state of mutation.” Collective mutation, minus the actual weight of collectivity: that practiced gravity of being functionally and interpretably limited to a particular cultural group. Between positions, lightness. Beam and motion. Tending-to planely rendered in intersecting vectors of light saddling each other, rays re-arraying. Relation reduced to its visible minimum of luminous appearing. The shadow of a shadow of culturability illumined. Penumbra of relational light. The human environment beamingly dematerialized through the relay from computers around the globe to searchlight on site to spectators on site and around the globe, accordioning into the gaps between positions. The distributed immediacy of that event could not fail to spark thought-signed feelings-motions in the individual bodies factoring into the collective becoming event-body on the continuum of community and alien memory. Felt movements that were certainly an incipiency, no doubt a tending, or many. Together. Locally-globally unified in the aesthetic effect of a shared transitioning of positions. 
“Life lurks in the interstices.”xxxv 
	The point? Just “the essential pleasure of coming together.”