“A message for you is floating in the sky of Yamaguchi.” On November 1, 2003 thousands of people around the world started receiving this alert by cell phone or email. The messages waited and flashed, like the seductive signals used by fireflies to find mates for coupling. At first sight, the light signals that "Amodal Suspension. Relational Architecture No. 8" sends pulsing into the sky are as illegible as the insect variety, although they are many orders of magnitude more visible. Standing in for the insect’s abdomen is an array of the world's most powerful robotic searchlights. 
In "Amodal Suspension" people send short text messages to each other using a cell phone or web browser. But rather than being sent directly to their intended recipients the messages are encoded as unique sequences of flashes and “deposited” in the sky, awaiting collection. A searchlight designated by the sender beams the message and rotates. Then a random second searchlight picks up the code, and the two beams intersect, flashing in unison. No sooner do they connect, however, than the first beam extinguishes. A third random searchlight then takes up the message, intersecting with the second. The messages are relayed in this fashion from one pair of searchlights to another, in a dance of lights. This touch-and-go mating of asexual rays is the only coupling that effectively takes place. 
A number of  processes have been designed into the installation to come between the sender and the receiver of the message. The bipolar transmission usually considered to lie at the heart of human communication is complicated to such a degree that one is forced to say either that what is being made visible here is not human communication (or not only that) or that human communication is not definable by the dual subjective structure – between sender and receiver – that is almost universally assumed to characterize it. 
The first complication is that the message appears in an entirely different mode than the code that enables it. It is present in a purely visible way. It is seen before it can be read, and it cannot be read as it is seen. 
This is because the flashing in the sky is a translation of the digital input into an analogue signal that preserves only selected characteristics of the digitally encoded linguistic meaning. To each letter in the message corresponds a change in the intensity of the beam. Letter by letter, different light intensities daisy-chain without interruption, in a continuity of variation. 
There is a moment of near darkness between words, but this interval is in no way comparable to the off-state of the digital code. It is more a punctuation between the continuities of variation on either side than merely one half of the on-off binary. The off-state of the interval makes a threesome: the two series of intensities, with the interval between. 
This “thirdness” (to speak like C.S. Peirce) is the basic articulation of the signal. But three’s a crowd. Each of the variations punctuated by the off-state is multiple, consisting of a population of intensities. This complexity translates as a pulsation. The result is very different from the strobe effect ordinarily used to transmit code visually. Most if not all of the messages will consist of more than two words. Coming irregularly in the midst of a series of changes in intensity, the moment of near darkness will meld into the continuing pulsing, its threeness into the multiplicity it parses. Rather than an off-state that is the opposite of an on-state, it will come across as the low note on the same scale (brightness). In other words, the compositional principle of the signal, as experienced, is more a continuous modulation of a dimension of perception, than an encoding of separate bits of data or a sequencing of units of meaning. Modulation is the very definition of the analogue signal—a continuous variation in amplitude and time (that is, a smoothly varying value).