So what value is being analogically varied here? The changes in intensity are based on the frequency with which the corresponding letter occurs in the language of the message. The higher the frequency, the brighter the pulse. Letter frequency is a socio-historical variable. It materializes in statistical form the particularities of a culturally specific linguistic evolution. In "Amodal Suspension," this cultural-frequency variable pulses into view as a visual rhythm. The encoding of letter frequency into the beam attaches it genetically to culture-specific rhythms of speech. But the encoding is not visually decodable by the viewer, any more than the meaning of the message can be seen in the pulse and flutter. What comes across is, simply, the rhythm. A language-like rhythm – without the actual language. 
Rhythm is the most perceptually salient dimension of language. Phonemes disappear into their meaning. You don't hear them to the exact degree to which you understand them. But their rhythm asserts itself, an experienced something-extra that conveys an emphasis, accent, tone, or mood. The rhythm carries the force of the phrase, above and beyond its structure and meaning. "Amodal Suspension" uses encoding to make visible this extra-linguistic effectiveness: the force of language. This is the variable that is being analogically presented. The display conveys the feel of a statement's impact without its meaning. We get the same feel from the firefly’s inhuman light show of exoskeletal love. It is impossible to watch them and not get the uncanny feeling that they are “talking” to each other. 
The installation makes human language visible at a rhythmic limit where it shades into a dimension of experience that is necessary to its workings but is not of its mode, since it is also the province of the bug. The work creates a visual analogue of human language, something “like” it, that reattaches it not only to a particular cultural evolution but also to the biosemiotic background from which it emerged. 
The meaning and structure of language are “suspended” in the beam, against the forceful background of their own emergence. What is positively experienced here is a transitional zone where language in its human mode rhythmically returns to the animal fold from which it came, at the same time as its sound mode translates into a visual mode akin to gesture (which beckons to speech, heralding its possibility, in the human as in the animal). What lies transitionally between modes is “amodal.” Hence the title of the piece.
The force of a statement never fails to make itself felt. But it also always fades, making way for the next utterance. The beams slowly rise into the sky and decrease in intensity while preserving the original rhythm. In the meantime, other messages are received and displayed. With twenty towers, up to ten messages can beckon at once, each with a signature pulse. The air crowds with the sight of language rising. The properly linguistic dimension is not lost. It is still there, latent as a definite possibility in the code that is never shown, though it enables the display. 
To see the latent content, the addressee must “grab” the message from the beaming crowd as she would a pluck a point of light from a summer cloud of fireflies. This is done by clicking on the beam on the real-time website simulation of the event, or on-site by cell phone by entering the number of the tower currently carrying the message. To access the coded content, the participant must perform a digital analogue of gesture, beckoning delivery of the meaning content. And it has to be done fast. As the soon as the message is grabbed, the beam abruptly disappears. If someone beats them to it, they receive a message informing them of the name and location of the poacher. The message can still be accessed from the public log archived on the server.