The base definition of linguistic communication is often considered to be the transmission of a syntactically coded content from a sender to a receiver. The problem with that bipolar transmission model is that it is incapable of distinguishing between insect communication and human language – and not because the model has complexly returned to their transitional zone, but merely because it has oversimplified. There may or may not be a syntax to firefly flashes, but there certainly is to the dance of the bees. The reason commonly given to explain why the bee does not have language even though it is capable of communicating syntactically coded message content is that the message cannot be retransmitted to a third party. 
The communicational system found in nature best able to do that is human language. Human communication is defined by this linguistic “thirdness,” by its capacity not for linear transmission but for indirection. This complicates things: with the third party in waiting down the line comes the possibility of that party jumping the line and intercepting the message. Indirect relay and message poaching, or hacking, is of the very nature of human communication. With indirect relay comes the inevitably of noise and the accompanying distortion of message content. A fuller model than sender and receiver, with a coded message passing between them, would be a combination of the games of “telephone” and musical chairs.
“Third” parties never come in ones. Where there’s one third, there’s bound to be another down the noisy line. Three’s a crowd again. But this time the triadic multiplicity separates human language back out, returning it to its proper mode. Lozano-Hemmer’s installation also makes visible the rearising or reemergence of specifically human communication, in its first flush, or flash, seen for what it is: a nonlinear crowd phenomenon. The rising community of poachable beams is Lozano-Hemmer’s visual analogue of what he calls the chaotic “social soup” of many-party thirdness: a literal flash mob. 
Earlier it was said that a number of mechanisms interjected themselves between the sender and receiver in a way that complicated the linear model of message transmission. Also mentioned was the possibility of message poaching, which interjects between the sender and receiver the potential presence of a third party on the line. There was also the necessity of catching the message with a flick of the thumb or finger. This alloys the verbal dimension of language with the bodily dimension of gesture, bringing into the experience of the installation an experiencing of the limit between the linguistic and the extralinguistic, thought and the body, the human and the nonhuman. It brings what we normally tend to think of as mutually exclusive domains into a proximity, a convergence that is not stated or displayed but rather performed. To participate in the installation, one has to perform this limit of language. Speech and bodily action brush up against one another and relay into one another, in a way that redirects attention at least momentarily away from the message content, to the speech act as performance and as event. Embodied social performance becomes more noticeably, in fact unmissably, a part of the speech act in a way that brings to the fore the accompaniment of the linguistic by the extralinguistic – in convergence, but not necessarily entirely at peace with one another. The need to interrrupt the understanding of the message content with the effort of the catch produces interference patterns between content and performance context.
There is a third mechanism of meaning interference built into the installation: translation. Messages could be entered in English or Japanese. If for example a message entered in Japanese is poached by a third party using English, the message is automatically translated using an off-the-shelf automatic translating software system widely used on the Web at the time (Systran’s Sherlock). As anyone who has used an internet translating feature knows, automatic translation is not a very advanced art. Errors inevitably slip in, often to comic effect. Using automatic translation in this context brings interference into the very heart of the message, again frustrating the possibilty of transparent communication. The linear transmission of message content is scrambled, in a technologically assisted version of the telephone game.
All of these mechanisms for interrupting transmission and creating interference make noise as much a part of the installation’s content as the meaning of the messages conveyed.