There are different ways of thinking about noise. The most widespread is native to information theory and corresponds to our everyday understanding of the term. Noise according to this definition is the opposite of signal. It comes at the signal from outside its structure and disrupts it. On this view, the structure of the signal is clear and self-sufficient. Its meaning is as unambiguous as it can be made by the code used to construct it, unless it is perturbed from without. The extralinguistic element of noise is cast as the simple opposite of linguistically formed message transmission. It is its negative: the unstructured and unstructuring. 
But in "Amodal Suspension," when we approach the extralinguistic, we aren’t moving into the simple opposite, outside, or negative of the linguisitic. We are moving into a zone of indistinction where language shades back into what it emerged from  – gesture, body, animality, the multiplicity of the population whose collective life gives rise to the need for communication, whose endless reserve of third parties ensures its continuation and plasticity, and whose history is sedimented in the structure of its language and the frequency of its elements.
This zone of indistinction is not the negation of language but rather the field of its emergence  – not its unstructured opposite, but the event of its coming into effect. The installation returns language to its generative field.
There is another way of understanding noise that dovetails with Lozano-Hemmer’s use of it in "Amodal Suspension." It comes from certain philosophies concerned with ontogenesis and emergence, and has also been explored in some avant-garde art of the twentieth century, such as the work of John Cage.
In this alternate view, noise is as constitutive of the signal as its code. The following discussion of this conception of noise is based on Aden Evens' analysis in Sound Ideas. The book is primarily about music, but its discussion of sound and noise is written to apply as well to language – as it must. For the line between music and language is another of the zones of indistinction belonging to language’s field of emergence. Language meets multiplicity in thirdness, it meets body and animality in gesture – and it meets music in sound and rhythm, and in the fact that it shares sound’s own emergent relation to noise.
"It is noise," Evens writes, "that binds the signal" and that serves as "a baseline, a plane of relief against which signal stands out."xxxvi He describes noise as a background to signal, but not in the visual sense, where the static background is in contrast with the discreteness of the form that stands out against it. His use of the word “relief” suggests a geological image. Noise is like the underlayer from which signal, with its message content, rises in relief, upfolding under pressure from tectonic forces. Signal stands in relation to noise as a mountain rises from the continually shifting ground. A mountain is mute testimony to the past action of forces of emergence of the earth, and to the certainty that future tectonic shifts will continue to reshape the landscape. Like a peak, signal stands out against the generative, and regenerative, forces of its own tectonic formation. 
The idea that "Amodal Suspension" makes perceptible the force of language can be articulated with this concept of noise.  Central to that concept is the fact that a sound never entirely disappears. It dissipates. It relaxes, spreads out, becoming less and less contracted, but it remains, hanging in the air, a breath away from silence, fused with the relaxation of every other sound that ever rang out. This noise of near-silence is an imperceptible background buzz, a vibratory limit of sound at which a sound rejoins all sound, in an open field. Evens calls it a “cosmic echo”: a universal history of sound (the ground of the ground, infinitely more encompassing than the proximate ground against which a sound figure stands in tectonic relief).
When a new sound rings out, it ripples the surface of this cosmic echo. From the rippling, it peaks. Its own vibration resonates with the silence-nearing background buzz, or forms interference patterns with it. The resonance and interference of the background noise is a condition of the new sound’s emergence, but also becomes an ingredient in it, contributing to its timbre or giving it an undertone. The emerging signal peaks from the background of noise. Given the energetic, vibratory nature of its ground, it is perhaps less like a mountain peak than a wave, cresting on the sea. A wave can be thought of as contracting the calm of the sea into a new swell. The cresting of the wave gives new focus to the imperceptible stirrings of the deep, whose potential energy is brought once again to forceful expression. The emergent wave gives focus and expression to the forces of the sea, as the sea gives direction to the wave: toward the shore.
Similarly, a sound signal can be thought of as contracting noise, the near-silent universal history of sound, into the clarity of a newly emerged meaning. It gives focus and expression to the reservoir of all sound, whose spreading depth reciprocates by giving the signal direction: toward sense.
A signal, to become meaningful, to become a linguistic sign, must be contracted a second time. It must ripple another reservoir, and bring it to a crest of focus and expression. This second reservoir is that of our perceptions and memories, our habits of attention and learned responses, our innate animal tropisms and acquired tendencies, our skills, hopes, and desires, as socially instilled, and as embodying a variation on the long and continuing history of nature and culture, and nature in culture: a nature-culture continuum coming into language. Each emergent meaning contracts this universal history into the clarity of its individual meaning, bringing its potential energy once again to forceful expression, and in return, receiving direction from it.  Quoting Evens:
Every string plucked, every throat cleared, vibrates a [background] vibration, modifies an existing difference [and is modified by it]. Sound is a modulation of difference, a difference of difference. […] Noise is the uncontracted, the depth from which these contractions of perception are drawn, and, though sense-less and insensible [in itself], it makes sense or gives sense to sound, by providing sound with its direction and focusing it to a point of clarity. Noise is the reservoir of sense, the depth in which sounds connect to each other, the difference whose modulation is signal. […]  sounds only have sense when what is heard includes not only what is heard clearly, but includes also the implicated in what is heard [the obscurity of the background, fading out into all directions to the ground of grounds, from which the clear and distinct stands out]. To hear meaningful sound – be it the articulate meaning of speech or the ineffable meaning of music – is to hear sound in motion, heading somewhere.  [...] Noise draws along with it a residue of obscurity, lines of relaxation which anchor sound to the noise it modulates. Sound implicates these obscure tethers, which connect sound to noise […] implicating worlds of forces not yet unleashed, but whose reservoir powers the music [or linguistic expression], driving it along. […] Implication pushes [language] forward […] and this motion is not created by the [words] but produces them as [the expression] of its force. […] Implication is what connects isolated elements to each other, in a creative synergy.xxxvii