V.N. Vološinov echoes this in his formula that “expression organises experience.”xxxviii The organising center of any communication, he says, is not within the individual but in the open field of a collective outside.xxxix This is not the kind of outside that stands opposite to or as the negative of the inner life attributed to the individual through which it expressively crests. It is the outside constituted by the whole of communication, its sea. In Vološinov, this whole of communication is defined, in language reminiscent of Bakhtin's definition of the cultural domain, not as bounded but as a boundary regionxl: a region of contact, a crossing pointxli between the linguistic structure of the message carried by the signal and the extralinguistic noise of gesture, body, animality, our perceptions and memories, our habits of attention and learned responses, our tropisms and acquired tendencies, our skills, hopes, and desires. The "whole" of communication is the ensemble of modulations of individual expression, in a churning zone of indistinction extending by degrees to the far reaches of the universal history of sound. 
Like Evens, Vološinov describes this zone of indistinction as a connective current of self-regenerating expression. “Language,” writes Vološinov, “cannot be said to be handed down – it endures, but it endures as a continuous process of becoming. Individuals do not receive a ready-made language at all, rather, they enter upon the stream of communication.”xlii Our individual communications crest like waves from the sea-streams of speech.
Vološinov goes on to say that there is a reservoir of past communications into which each message dissipates. A message never disappears, especially in this digital age where everything can be recorded and automatically archived. A speech act doesn’t disappear; it relaxes into the archive. Every message ever produced subsides in the potential for reported speech – the potential to be taken up again and reactualized in a third party report of what was said. In its widest sense, the Archive is the pure potential for speech. It is the abstract surface of rhythm and sound relaxing to the far-real and contracting noisily toward speech. An actual digital archive doubles the abstract surface of the Archive in far-real sense, contracting selected crestings on the sea of reportable speech into its own element – in this case digitality, the dominant manner of archival appearing in our age. 
If reportable speech is the sea of communication as it contracts toward language, then an archived message is a “crystallization”xliii of a wave-crest of communication that once broke on its shore. Although crystalized, it is not exactly inert. Its crystalline structure retains a potential energy: add a splash of new rhythm and pinch of noise, and it can be brought back out from the depths of history, to reexpress itself. 
An archive of reportable speech is resting place of communication. But it still harbors an organizing force. Reaccessed, an expression inflects. It takes on an undertone and a new orientation. No utterance, as Derrida argued, is ever entirely original. A speech act is always a “citation” that regathers the force of the already-said, but with a difference, repeating it with a variation – modulating it (in analogue fashion). 
Reported speech, Vološinov reminds us, bears testimony to an “active relation of one message to another.” That active relation is the condition of emergence or real potential of communication: “words reacting upon words,”xliv to new but analogous effect, in a continuity of variation. At rest in an archive, that active relation becalms itself. Words already-said relax back toward the collective sea of communication, subsiding into Lozano-Hemmer’s social soup, rejoining what Maurice Blanchot called the anonymous "murmur” that is both the Archival ground of language and its outside limit.xlv Actually archived words are in communicational reserve, poised for reactivation. Upon reactivation, they leave their backwater of repose to reenter the active stream of language. They come back in citation, undertoning and inflecting the cresting of a new event of language. Words regained, reacting again upon words. Language ebbing and flowing, relaxing into stagnant eddies and contracting again into the wave-crest. 
The extra-effect or force of language – the experienced something-extra that conveys an emphasis, accent, tone, or mood – that is staged in "Amodal Suspension" is the power of language to rhythmically regather its active relation to itself and the open field of its murmurous outside, in a pulsed continuation of the always-crossed lines of communication. To assist in the regathering, the project includes its own automatically compiled digital archive.
The "Amodal Suspension" archive is many ways the heart of the installation. It will be very rare that the person to whom a message is addressed manages to catch it out of the air. The mass of messages will settle into the online archive. The addresee will have to extract it from the archive. Once again, the process is designed to have a strong element of tactility. The messages populate a 3D virtual space that recedes in all directions. The farther away they are, the more blurred the words. The bring the words into focus, the participant has to navigate through the space with the mouse. The navigation has the feel of swimming. Using the mouse is like paddling with your hands in a liquid. You agitate the cursor to create eddies in the liquid archive of communication. The eddies will catch a message on their swell and flush it toward the front of the screen. When one washes forward, it crests into focus and can be read. The tactility of this eddy-fishing for the message gives the digital archive a turbulently analogue experiential dimension. 
The archive also works to return communication to the zone of indisinction between gesture and language in exemplary fashion. Just beginning to access what the archive holds already reactivates the words at the regenerative border zone between the extralinguistic and the linguistic, before their linguistic meaning reappears. It brings the infra-inhabitation of language by gesture to the fore.
The "Amodal Suspension" archive also exemplifies the return of communication to its constitutive “thirdness,” the power of relay that, processually speaking, is more fundamental to its operation than the explicit structure of linguistic forms, or the digital code of the archiving of words. The archive plays a central role in "Amodal Suspension's" insistent thirding of communication. Messages directly transmitted from a sender to a receiver will almost inevitably reach the wrong party. They will be poached from the sky by an unintended recipient. They will then detour to the archive, where they will rest, in an ever-expanding reservoir of reported speech. The computer becomes the third party through which messages relay indirectly to the addressee. This detour of digitally reported speech gives new technological expression to the indirection that constitutes the force of human language.