In part one of this chapter, relational architectural works such as "Displaced Emperors," "Re:Positioning Fear," and "Vectorial Elevation" were seen to operate in the element of "culturability," the field in which cultural acts gestate, and from which they emerge to single themselves out as determinate relational moves. The region of real, proximate potential in-forming that event – its processual neighborhood – was termed the "cultural domain" (with reservations as to the spatial connotations of the term). Does "Amodal Suspension" swim in the same element? Is its operative domain also cultural? Is the cultural act its event-medium as well? How could it not be if, as in the first three works discussed, "Amodal Suspension" also harnesses the emergent force of human language, in a zone of indistinction with gesture? Isn't language one with culture? 
"Amodal Suspension" suggests that instead of language being one with culture, it is of-a-many with it: integrally imbricated with it, yet not equatable to it. More than one domain overlaps in the cresting of language. There must be a distinction, for example, between the cultural act and the social act, each peaking from their respective domains and -abilities. There must be a field of sociability that overlaps with that of culturability, but it is not reducible to it. If so, each expression in language contracts both fields. But the distinction between them is not erased by this mutual inclusion in the event. Sociability and culturability are like two co-composing tonal systems. They are both in on each act, but only one gives the act its dominant tonality. In "Displaced Emperors," "Re:Positioning Fear," and "Vectorial Elevation," the emphasis was on contracting into the event political and historical references and codings, across many a level and in many a register, from the angle of their infra-stirring, astraddle the translocal movements that intersect in the event's taking place in such a way as to also stir alien memories of the far-realest kind into the meiotic soup. Culturability was the dominant tonality: its element. In "Amodal Suspension," by contrast, the emphasis is on contracting reported speech and the anonymous murmur into the event and its archive. Here, sociability is the dominant tonality: the element. Political and historical references and codings are suspended, in the hijacking of communication. Culture hangs in the air, unrequited. Sociability, however, persists. In fact, it comes out for itself. It flashes forth to express its native force. 
Culturabilty and sociabilty are overlapping fields. Both are ultimately open fields, meaning that they are unbounded. This makes it nonsensical to try to demarcate a boundary between them. How then can they distinguished, in their indefinite overlap? The distinction cannot be one of content type, because what defines them as -abilities afield is precisely their self-abstraction from content, which takes place in the very same movement by which their acts performatively peak into a clearly appearing dynamic unity of expression. The dynamic form of that expression fusionally folds the fields of emergence into the sensuous form of the content's cresting. In and of themselves, these fields are the potential for content. In and of themselves, they have only virtual content. The only way to adequately distinguish them is, rather than by trying to establish boundaries between them, to define their effective limits.
 By effective limits is meant processual limits: the poles between which the process of their coming to expression passes, and whose polarity must be seen as activating that passage. Processual limits must be counted as formative event-factors. They are constitutive, akin to what in chapter 1 was called the performance envelope of an emergence. The creative tension of their polarized differential describes the shape of an open field of emergence as it passes into domainal proximity. A careful recap is necessary to distill the constitutive limits of culturability and sociability as co-operating open generative fields.
The cultural act was described as a two-way movement. In one direction, it rejoined its potential for change, at an infraindividual level. Following this movement, cultural specificities – place, memories of the past and toward the future, generally shared affective orientations, language-borne behavioral and ideational tendencies of an effectively ideological nature, acquired competencies and habits – are placed in expressive suspense. This is an active suspense in which they are poised to return, under variation. In the tensed suspense of the infra-moment, their determinations "fuse" together, and their fusing together mates with levels and scales beyond the measured human pale. That is to say, they enter a domain of immediate proximity across their differences in an expanded field: they resonate. In resonant intensity, they modulate each other's potential next expression. When the next act comes, its course will have been infected, inflected, in-formed by the cross-mating of levels enveloped in words, in a region of language coming to clear expression. "Priming" was given as an example of this mutational-relational co-effecting of a coming act, immanent to its eventful emergence. 
The eventuating of a next step is the other half of the two-way movement. The move that comes is determined in the course of its occurrence to have been just as it was. It has specifically taken place. It will become a specific difference. Its having specifically, differently taken place has given grist for memory. It has expressed a memorable affective orientation all its own. It has renewed behavioral or ideational tendencies, in a new variation, or it has run counter to them. It has furthered or confounded habit. It has rescaled its potential reach. It has achieved particularity. What it has been, has been determined. It has individuated. Its taking place has taken its place. In its individuality, it is positioned vis-à-vis other similarly determinate acts, occupying reciprocal positions in a cultural landscape. It has become a coordinate in a territory, or a domain. The movement of the cultural act toward its individuality is a territorialization. The inverse movement whereby it rejoins its relational potential in expectant suspense of what it will come to be, in and as the incipiency of that becoming, is a deterritorialization. The two movements, though inverse, are coincident: two facets of the same event. When Lozano-Hemmer spoke of "dematerializing" the environment, he could have said "deterritorializing" the act instead.
Where territorialization and deterritorialization come together is in "bare activity." Bare activity was defined as the material quality of the event: its bodily dimension. In bare activity is where the particular body shades back into the kinesthetic amoeba it always is at the incipient level of its every moving act. The body's bare activity occurs in a zone of indistinction between thinking and feeling. The various modalities of sensuous experience fuse with each other, and together enter into "amodal" resonance with the "higher forms" of determination characterizing the cultural act, as they feed back to and through the emergent level. The cultural act is infused with the material quality of its event. Its event, therefore, is integrally bodily. In the event, the body may "stretch" beyond its scale. It may expand to the length of meadow, touch a façade on its own a monumental scale, factor in a technological apparatus of immense complexity and heterogeneous composition, and take in or take on the planetary dimensions of the worldwide web. In bare activity, as the life of the body accordians into its expanded field of emergence, it telescopes out-of-scale, becoming in-formed by levels well beyond its own. This is the material quality of experience becoming cosmic. At this extreme point of expansive deterritorialization, the human body is in a zone of indistinction with nonhuman levels – extending through the biological into the inorganic, from meadow to metal, in wire and across concrete – with which its life is formatively imbricated. The out-of-scaleness of the nonhuman levels with which it enters, regerminally, into fusion give the act a cosmic dimension.xlvi
The cultural act hangs between two limits, with respect to which it moves following two inverse but coincident movements. Following one, it achieves human particularity, positioned on the cultural map vis-à-vis other acts similarly cresting into their specificity. At this proximate limit of peaking into position, the cultural act is interactive in the sense defined above. It participates in a back-and-forth of call-and-response the aim of which is to transmit messages between positions on the map with minimum noise and maximum security against third-party poaching and collective drift. To the extent that separate human agency is attributed to the individual senders, this communicational interaction is intersubjective. Intersubjective communication is the human limit of the cultural act: its human extremity, the extremity of the cultural becoming of the human. The coordinates of communicational activity are now intersubjectively inscribed and recognized. The flipside of this recognizability is the imperative to own up to one's actions. The owning-up holds a body to position on the intersubjective grid. The cultural territory is now striated with two-party lines of person-to-person message emission and reception. The noise of culturability's folding in and out, accordioning a cosmic continuum, is muffled. The noise-laden latitude of emergent variation is restricted to set intersubjective channels of communication. At its human limit, the cultural domain snaps to grid.
The contrasting limit has precisely to do with the cosmic dimension of the event. The cosmic limit of the human (as of everything that moves and expresses, potentially informing the human) is the pole with respect to which the cultural act in the bare-active incipiency of its becoming enters into resonance with nonhuman, out-of-scale levels and formations, on a continuum, potentially, with all of nature as well as the utmost infectious spread of technology. The cosmic limit is a limit in a different sense of the word. 
The human limit is an internal limit. An internal limit is one that can be reached. It is internal to a domain. When the movement reaches such a limit it passes a threshold, whereupon it expires. It is then taken back up, after what may be an imperceptible hiatus, and makes a movement of return. In other words, an internal limit is a threshold between exercises of the same kind of passage. For example, a message is sent and reaches its addressee. It has completed its communicational trajectory for all intersubjective intents and purposes. It has exhausted itself. Upon reception, all it is, is said and done. Said and done and owned. The sender has no choice but to own up to it, as the addressee takes it back up, to return a response, which she in turn must own. In crossing the threshold, the message's communicational movement has passed from first-person communicational call to  second-party communicational response. The sent message, received, perishes into its interactive follow-on effect on the two-party line of intersubjective communication. Internal limits are interactive in that they concern dual relations of action-reaction. They govern cyclic movements remaining internal to the same domain and exemplifying the same manner of event – the kinds of events that are functionally intolerant of the amoebic mating of dimensions of experience and the nonlinear rhythms of third-party noise, and endeavor to filter it out to the extent possible in order to safeguard a regularized back-and-forth. Such is the cultural act at its most communicationally human.
The cosmic limit, by contrast, is an immanent limit. There is no going beyond an immanent limit.xlvii However far the present stretch, there is a still a potential further reach. The immanent limit is always ever-more approachable. It infinitely recedes from reach. The closer a movement comes to it, the more intensely it recedes, into its own potential. At each approach to this limit, the cultural act is amoebically reborn. It rebounds, renewed by a reinfusion with potential. It relationally rearises, in sea-tossed variation. Rather that backing-and-forthing in call-and-response, it rises and subsides in an abandon of mutational heaving. Rather than responsibly safeguarding, it rythmically mates its eventful fate.
The two limits co-operate. They coincide, crosswise, co-generative of culturing. They are inverse and simultaneous. Every cultural act of communication, however intersubjectively functionalized, returns to some degree to the immanent limit, if only by default (by the impossibility of entirely filtering out amoebism and thirdness). The cultural act is strung between a cosmic limit of repotentializing run and return, and the achieved human limit of its determinately taking place; between cosmic deterritorialization, and making a recognizable mark on the human map; between relational emergence, and owned interactive exchange; between a relational nature-culture continuum of indeterminate self-refreshing expanse, and coordinate intersubjective positioning; between the regenerative whole of its potential variation and the perishing particularity of its having been said and done, to functional effect. Such is its scope. Such is its field.
Given its scope, the field of culturability from which the cultural act emerges cannot be equated with culture in the normal sense, as opposed to nature. The possibility of that opposition sets in on the level of cultural domain comprising the proximate neighborhood of the cultural. It is a feature of the content coded into that domain. Culturability, for its part, cannot be opposed to nature, for the simple reason that the process running through it is the enculturation of nature: the furthest cosmic stretch of elemental potential expressively folding into the tightness of the particular cultural act, in-forming its taking-determinate-form of the essential unboundedness of its open grounding, ground of ground.