In "Amodal Suspension," there is a two-way movement of this kind between co-operating limits. But the limits are off-set from the ones just described as marking the poles of the cultural domain. 
"Amodal Suspension" organizes a crosswise co-generative movement that intersects, once again, in bare activity. There is once again a playing out of the material quality of an event, involving an amodal fusion of registers of experience, gesture with vision with tactility. But "Amodal Suspension" suspends the said-and-doneness of the cultural act, which is admitted in the other works. In "Amodal Suspension," the movement of communication is not allowed to complete itself in a particularizable, individually ownable, message making a functional difference in effective call-and-response. The messages sent are bounced back and forth between machine-translation smudged Japanese and English, thus preventing them from settling into a specific coordinate of a particular cultural map. Insistently detoured into a thirdness of poached and reported speech, the messages are prevented from channeling into a two-party exchange. All of this creates interference, noise on the line, by design. The messages subside forthwith into the eddies of the archive/Archive. Mission doubly incompleted. Even if a message reaches an intended recipient, it does not do so without being simultaneously refracted into indefinitely prolongable third-party transmission and the indeterminate afterlife of citation. The language act is unmoored from the shores of finalized human communication. The internal limit of human communication is disenabled. This remits communication to the open field. Messages are deprived of the luxury of falling to grid in a cultural domain. "Amodal Suspension" disenables the achievement of noise-reduced intersubjective communication. It contrives for the language acts it does enable to fall short of ownable human individuation. Its flashes flush the internal limit away. This jogs it toward the immanent limit, by default. 
Unlike the earlier works, "Amodal Suspension" contrives not to stretch itself amoebically out-of-scale to the maximum extent. Its falls shy of full-force becoming-other, setting its approach to the immanent limit at the point where the force of language enters a zone of indistinction with the animal. This is the zone where language shades into gesture, and the coded linguistic sign into the firefly flash of the signal. Gesture remains intimately tied to the emergent force of human language (the better to be in a position to disenable the internal limit of the human) even as it enters a zone of indistinction with the animal. However large the installation, however long the beams, however sprawling and complex the technological apparatus, the participant act remains a grab at words. The kinesthetic amoeba is suspended in its reach for language. That reach is performed independently of the content of the words, which may never be known to any given reacher, and is in every case detoured, thirded, and set a-sea in the sky. 
Vološinov famously distinguishes the "theme" of language from semantic content. The difference is that theme is singularly marked by the noisy "whole" to which it emergently belongs.xlviii The particular "evaluative accent," or affective tonality, with which a speech act crests qualitatively marks its constitutive belonging to that ever-changing whole.xlix The evaluative accent is performed, not just signified. It is always performed extra-syntactically (in tone or rhythm), and often extraverbally (in gesture or facial expression).l The whole to which a language act emergently belongs is infra: infra-present, infra-individual, infra-cognitive, infra-determinate meaning. In "Amodal Suspension" the event of language is incipiently enacted at a more expansively formative level than it is individually understood. It amoebates, but without reaching so close to the cosmic limit as to fall beyond the zone of indistinction between the human and the animal, toward, for example, a becoming vegetable or mineral. These dimensions cannot but be in-forming of the act, but the predominance of grasping at words keeps them  distantly backgrounded.
Priming was given earlier as an example of how semantic content is enacted at a more formative level than it is understood. In priming, the content of the word gets directly into the act at its bare-active incipiency. It is as active a factor in the individuation of the cultural act as any muscular effort that may also figure, even if its action is absent by nature to the present of understanding, acting as it does in the gap. In the gap-action of priming, the contrasts, level and scales distinguished by semantic content and its present cognitive present understanding are telescoped into action across their specific differences and grid-positionings. Old is in immediate proximity with young. Florida is as effectively here as there. This fusional wholeness or holding-together of disparate potential is always already tending toward a specific playing out. There is already an orientation on the way. In the example given earlier, slowness of step was the extraverbally performed evaluative accent of gap-acting "bingo." Vološinov's concept of theme asserts that this enactive on-the-oriented-way from indistinct potential whole to particular evaluative accent is the "meaning" of the speech act in its fullest sense – more than formally semantic; including the act's informal, even deforming, performative implication with the extraverbal. Theme is what effectively makes the speech act an act. It is the force of language as it comes more-than-meaningfully to pertain to content. 
What "Amodal Suspension" suspends is the semantic finality of the "as pertains to content." The understanding of the semantic content of the messages is refracted and interfered with. The cresting of the evaluative accent is deferred, if not lost in the ebb and flow. Priming is largely disabled. The speech act's particularity, its taking on of determinate content, is suspended. 
The taking on of determinat content is suspended in gesture: in the reaching-toward staged through the flashes. The speech act is suspended in the very act of reaching toward language. Language is caught in the incipience of its own act.
What is left is the "theme" of language itself. What participants are primed for is language as such, aside from any particular enaction of its content. Its force is felt, in gesture, just out of reach of achieved content. The formative implication of language with the extraverbal is gestured to, in a grabbing at words hanging out of reach at the tip of the thumb and the sweep of a beam. The element of "Amodal Suspension" is no longer culturability. Instead, it is reaching-toward-language, finality of meaning deferred. The event of language is compellingly incompleted. This event is performatively one with its content, which is now nothing but the force of language as such. This is what shows between the flashes.