activated feeling of depth (Weschler 1982, 98–109). More a depth-likeness than a depth per se. He was making the third spatial dimension rise to the surface and insist on its visuality, in a kind of becoming-painting of sculpture.
He then moved into installation. He moved off the wall into 3D space itself, but also out of the gallery, into architectural or even urban spaces (Weschler 1982, 110–114, 147–154, 168–175, 182–203). People normally call this kind of art “spatial” because of that. They think of it as more “concrete,” more “real,” than abstract painting and other gallery practices. It’s not at all more concrete. It’s actually another practice of high abstrac- tion. It’s not more real, it’s differently real. That’s why it’s powerful as art. I have reservations about calling Irwin’s installation work spatial art. He moved into inhabited space in order to make it become other, as he had done with sculpture. It was what Deleuze would call a “counteractualiza- tion” of spaces of inhabitation.
What Irwin made inhabited space become is a living event. He carefully, minutely, obsessively  prepares the  conditions of  perception so  that an activation event takes off from them. The whole space is doubled by a perceptual activation or vibration effect, like the one he achieved with the dot paintings and disk works. But this time, it’s immersive. It’s not immer- sive in a 3D way. It’s like a diaphanous surface that’s everywhere and nowhere at the same time, a dimensionless semblance of lived space. Dimensionless but somehow totally space-filling, saturating every atom. The effect is slow to come, a lot of people don’t have the patience to let it come. When you do let it come, it takes over your whole being. You have an immersive thinking-feeling of what it’s like to be alive in inhabited space, and only what that’s like. It’s a perception of the perception of lived space. And you’re all in that perception, every thought, every movement, every shadow, every sound, each of them modulating the others, in imme- diate vibrational relation, in resonance. The resonance is all-embracing. Relationally self-framing. In a way that is only for the moment, uniquely taking off from and floating in that space. It’s monadic. A world of percep- tion unto itself. A self-embracing micro-climate of experience.
This is not interactive art. There is no interaction. You have to stop acting for the perceptual event to happen. It then wells up of its own volition. It takes you. You’re in it. It’s not in you. You live it in, rather than living it out. You don’t go anywhere with it. It stays where it happened,