as its own event. It’s an intensive experience, rather than an extension of it. This is an example of relational art that suspends all interaction.
When I said that what interactive art can do is take a situation as its “object,” that it could live up to its potential by then cleaving the interac- tions it situated asunder, I meant something like this, but done with and through interactions. Not suspending them altogether, but opening micro- intervals in them, so that there is a rhythm of departure and return between nonsensuous perception of affective continuity on the one hand, and on the other hand actually emergent drops of narrativizable experi- ence precipitating determinate words and instrumentalizable experience precipitating gestures. When I say this, I’m not endorsing Nicolas Bourri- aud’s way of talking about relational art. From my perspective, his “rela- tional” remains too wed to notions of interaction understood in terms of mediated intersubjective exchange. I’m talking about immediation, imme- diately lived relation (chapter 4).
I’m not trying to set up Irwin as a model either. I’m saying that his installation work moves to a non-interactive relational limit of art experi- ence, and that interactive art can take that movement up in itself. I’m saying that Irwin’s installation work is at an experiential limit or pole that can itself be put into resonance with another pole, at which experience has taken a certain distance on itself. The first pole is the living-in of relation, the second its living-out. Relation out-lived is subordinated to recognized makings-sense, the conduct of outwardly meaningful acts, action-reaction, instrumentation, function. Or if not so baldly to instru- mentation, then still to mediation. And if not prosaically to function, then to intersubjective exchange mediated by instrumentation. The poles, however, can be played off each other, or play with each other, so that the work produces a lived quality all its own, doubles itself aesthetically in a semblance of itself, and at the same time actually does or tells something specific. The poles are not necessarily mutually exclusive. In fact, they always actually come together to some degree. Even in the most intensely lived-in art practice, there is a minimum of recognition, making-sense, instrumentation, and function necessary to enable the work to take off. A modicum of living-out is necessary for the work to occur.
Thought of in this way, art practice is a technique of composing poten- tials of existence, inventing experiential styles, coaxing new forms of life to emerge across polar differentials. Art is inventive, literally creative of