vitality affect. I said earlier it was a technique of existence, and I do mean “technique.” To achieve any affective-effective composition requires the same kind of care, minute attention to detail, and obsessive experimenta- tion in how the situation is set up or framed as Irwin is famous for. In Irwin’s case, the framing is nonobjective. It’s more a performance envelope than an objective frame. A dynamic or operative frame.
The poles of relation lived-in and lived-out cut across every experiential distinction we can make. Take the senses. Each sense constitutes a pole of experience in its own right. We can separate them out, recognizing when we are having a predominant experience of seeing rather than touching, for example, and conducting meaningful functions accordingly. We can also consciously reconnect them across their separation, as when we look at a tool and think about the best way of taking into our hand for our use. This is the sense-equivalent of interaction. It is sense-experience at the pole, or limit, at which it is lived-out interactively. Toward the beginning I talked about what in perception studies is called cross-modal transfer. The problem for using that concept as it figures in perception studies for under- standing art practices as techniques of existence is that the distinction between sense interaction and sensed relation is not made. The way in which the senses are lived-in is not taken into account. I used the word “fusion” to talk about the event of sense-relation. I said an object was a cross-modal fusion. The idea was that potential touches and kinesthesias normally (habitually) built into the situation inhabit the event of vision. Feeling between these modes, we really, immediately see unseen aspects of the object’s presence in that situation. The point I did not bring out into relief enough is that in the immediacy of that between of different senses, the experience is not in one sense mode or another. It is not, strictly speak- ing, cross-modal. It is amodal. The relational pole of sense experience is amodal (Massumi 2002, 169–171). Lived abstraction, lived in-most, is an immediacy of amodal living.
As art plays between the poles of interaction and relation, so do the senses. Experience is always approaching one of its limits. It is always on the way to separating them out so they can be usefully cross-connected, or fusing them together in amodal immediacy to each other. As experience approaches either limit, it automatically toggles to the other. It is all good and well for the senses to function. But if they want to potentialize, they have to fuse. Every time experience separates itself out, depolarizes itself,