it has to repolarize, in order to recharge itself with potential. There is a necessary return to the fusional pole doubling every separate-sense experi- ence, and every cross-modal connection. This eternal return of experiential fusion habitually passes unnoticed. It is nonconscious. Art, practiced as Irwin practices it, as a technique of existence dedicated to the perception of perception, can nevertheless make it felt, in effect. Or make it “seen.” It make felt the play between the relational limits of experience. By doing this, it can learn techniques for recharging itself. The reason for integrating the kinds of distinctions I’ve been making here into our thinking about art and into the making of art is to renew and intensify its potential.
The toggling back to the fusional-relational pole is most intensely felt a when the separating-out of the sense modes is taken to an extreme. This is when a sense is made to do only what it can do. At that limit of what it can do, its relational conditions of emergence appear, as if experience returned through a wormhole to the other end of its universe in no time at all. Fusion effects spark, but so much in no-time-at-all that the vitality affect, the most outstanding lived quality of the experiential event, is in another sense mode, lived-out the other side of the wormhole. Inciden- tally, it is in the wormhole that James’s “pure experience” resides.
This is what I was talking about with kinesthesic and haptic vision: how they are pure optical appearances of other-sense qualities of life. What’s potentially instructive for art is more how the senses inhabit each other, even at the acme of their separation, than any putative domination of one by the other. The senses are always also taking each other up, coming into and out of each other in one way or another, worming their way around (Massumi 2002, 144–176). They never function alone. What we call the ocularcentric “domination” of vision over the other senses is in fact a highly functionalized and systematized cross-modal connection between vision and touch. Look forth and grasp, and have toolful dominion over the earth . . . the real issue is not so much the supposed domination of vision, it’s the excessive instrumentalization of its interaction with tactility. “Ocularcentrism” is a certain interacto-centrism, technoscientifi- cally enhanced.
The senses only ever function together, fusionally, in differential con- trast and coming-together. Although it is fair to call each sense a contrast- ing pole, it goes further to think in terms of contrasting wormhole poles of amodal fusion. At the extreme of every sense’s separating-out, it reaches