an immanent limit where it flips into an immediate relation with other- sense experience. At the limit, the sense-poles of experience are in constant virtual contact. They are always already in resonance, aquiver together at an analogical distance from each other that makes a destiny of their co- variation as part of the same ecology of experience. The same thing applies for stable spatial ordering and disruptive eventness. Intensity of experience and extension of it. Perception and action. Object perception and sem- blance. Objective perception and perception of perception. Self-referencing and function. Immanent relation (of nonrelation) and extrinsic relation (connective interaction). Actual (sensuous) form and nonsensuous (amodal) perception. Vision and narrative revision. Site-specificity and disposition. Monadology and nomadology. These are not dualities. They are polarities, dynamic orientations in an abstract qualitative map of potential experi- ence. The map is always multi-polar. All of these contrasting modes virtu- ally map each other, ripple into each other, canceling each other out or combining and amplifying, cresting and troughing, for calm and for tur- bulence, for continuing and turning back in, for immanence and  out- living. Any way it goes, we always live at a unique crossroads of them. Each moment is carried by the current of a singular-generic fusion of all of them, mutually foregrounded or backgrounded, active to varying inten- sity in the formative stir of the field of emergence of experience.
What I’m saying is that when an art practice carefully sets itself up, lays down the constraints that enable its own signature operation, it is selec- tively activating these poles, to varying degrees, and to different stand-out effect. In the vocabulary of the next chapter, when it composes itself in this way, art is “diagramming” livable relation. Each setup, each situational framing, will orient what happens more toward one end or the other of given polarities. It might, for example, bring narrativity out more than the affective in-whichness, or try to do both equally, superimposing them on each other or oscillating between them. Or it might favor instrumental interactivity more than making the relationalities conditioning it appear. It may fuse vision with tactility, or with kinesthesia, or spin one of them off from vision at vision’s own immanent limit. Or it might be forcefully disruptive, and make felt jolting disjunctions between sense modes, for example between sound and sight. It might spatialize more than eventuate. It might tend to root in the site-specific, or fan out into a distributed