network. The possibilities are as infinite as existence. Art is a literal com- posing of existential potentials. Life design.
The crux is in the technical laying down of operative parameters. In the design of the performance envelope, or the enabling operative contraints (Manning and Massumi, forthcoming b). If “anything goes,” it’s not art. Because if anything can go, it does—the aesthetic effect just goes away, dissipates. There is no dynamic form. Not even a semblance of a semblance appears. This was a problem facing installation art, which struggled with the temptation to pile everything in. If you do that, what you end up with is . . . a pile, a mess. It’s a problem again with interactive art, because with digital technology you can connect anything to anything else. When you leave the connective potential too open, you end up with the digital equivalent of a mess. On the other hand, when you close it down too much, you make it a game.
Deleuze used to say that life is an art of dosages. And the art of dosing life with creative potential is one of creative subtraction (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 6, 21, 98–99). That goes for art as a whole, which as we’ve seen is not separate from life even when it carefully appears to be. You have to strategically subtract to activate an autonomous limit or fuse for a situation. And you have to selectively fuse to sunder.
V2   Still no example.
BM  OK. One thing that’s happening more and more in interactive art is a fusing of vision with movement. This is operating at the same nexus between visual dynamics and kinesthesia as Irwin’s relational art does, but in a very different way because there is in fact interaction. An example I saw a couple of years ago was at a work-in-progress session at Sha Xin Wei’s Topological Media Lab, which works on responsive environment design. One of the projects was by Michael Montanaro and Harry Smoak. The concept was simple. There were two dancers going through a choreo- graphed routine on stage in front of a large screen. A motion-sensing camera analyzed their movement. When the movement reached a certain qualitative threshold—a certain speed and density of gesture—a video window opened up on the screen. But it wasn’t at all like a Windows window, thankfully. It was like a visual bubble that grew from nothing and expanded. It was like vision was flowering out of the screen, expressing a quality of movement, its speed and density, purely visually, in a sight that