that the ins and outs of the interaction can fold back in together to produce a semblance of the whole interaction. Toni Dove’s interactive project, Spectropia, works at this same perceptual nexus, between body-movement and its transduction on screen, but with the added dimension of cinematic narrative. She uses the narrative element, among other things, to translate the interaction into a participatory production of cinematic point of view and even cinematic time. It’s all done with a conscious engagement with the “uncanniness” of the interaction—a very ambitious and exciting project in what interactive cinema can be.
V2 In the dance example, the interaction is staged. There’s the traditional theatrical separation between the performers and the audience. The inter- action is only between the performers and the technology.
BM That’s what the audience said. The project was strongly challenged because of that. People said it was politically bankrupt because it had no “real” interaction, and it embraced the stage space without attempting to network out of it. I think that criticism misses the point. It’s that reductive idea about framing I mentioned awhile back—that the frame is reducible to the actual spatial parameters, and anything that appears within that frame has no relation to anything outside. It’s the idea again of “elitist” art trying to be “autonomous” in the most obvious sense of the term. Why not accept for a moment the constraints that the artist has carefully built in, and see what you can feel with them? It may turn out to be autonomous in the way I redefined it—in a relation-of-nonrelation with other forma- tions that might analogically “want” it and be able to capture and reframe it, so that it expands or contracts to fit other spaces and takes off from other conditions, where its effect could well be political. While it is true that the audience was not in on the interaction, they were in on the rela- tion. You couldn’t not see the relation between movement and vision being recomposed before your eyes. You felt the dancers making an actual sight of their bodies’ imperceptible movement talents. Kinesthesia was not only fused with movement, it was like vision itself was emerging from it. Body vision. Kinesthesia was making vision appear in the bubble, and the bubble was making bodily qualities of movement appear—a double capture of vision by movement and movement by vision, in a unique composition. Why can’t that experiential double capture of separate dimensions of experience lend itself to a double capture between the theatrical space