housing it and other spaces of interaction? Think of the way vision and movement are coupled so banally in the urban environment, subordinated to the maximum to functional circulation. What if this new composition of kinesthesia and vision were recomposed within an urban performance envelope? What might that do? Who or what might want that?
I don’t know. The artist doesn’t know. The audience didn’t want to think about it. But that doesn’t mean that the potential for a transduction of that kind wasn’t effectively produced. Xin Wei, responding to the audi- ence’s critiques, said something I’m in complete agreement with. He said that the point of the Topological Media Lab was to do speculative work with technology. That doesn’t mean that we’re supposed to speculate on what the technology might potentially do or who or what might want it or even what it does. It means that the work itself technically speculates. Its dynamic form is speculative by nature. It’s a speculative event. To speculate is to turn in on yourself. You turn in, in order to connect immanently with what is absolutely outside—both in the sense of belonging to other formations monadically separated from your present world, and in the sense of what may come but is unforeseeable. Xin Wei was suggesting that technically staged situations, understood as aesthetic events of recomposition, can also do that. When they do, what is happening is an exploratory collective thinking, a collective thought-event of the outside.
When Lozano-Hemmer talks about relational “architecture,” he doesn’t mean architecture in the narrow disciplinary sense (although of course architecture may itself be practiced relationally). It’s similar to what I’m talking about here: the technical staging of aesthetic events that speculate on life, emanating a lived quality that might resonate elsewhere, to unpre- dictable affect and effect. Stagings that might lend themselves to analogical encounter and contagion. That might get involved in inventive accidents of history. It’s about architectures of the social and political unforeseen that enact a relation-of-nonrelation with an absolute outside, in a way that is carefully, technically limited and unbounded.
Demands made on art to display its actual political content, or to observe a certain actual form that is deemed more political, are demands to curtail this kind of speculation, and the aesthetic politics it performs. They are demands to curtail aesthetic potential. There is nothing in prin- ciple wrong with that. As I said, life’s an art of dosages, and there can be very good reasons to dope artistic potential with explicit political content.