It’s just when that becomes a general injunction against certain kinds of experimentation that it becomes a concern to me, and I find myself vigor- ously dissenting.
V2 This has been a long conversation, and you haven’t used the word “media” once, except maybe in the stock phrase “new media.” It’s a word that’s all over the place in interactive art. Why have you shied away from this concept?
BM  Because I don’t think it is one. I mean, I think the concept of media is in crisis. It’s in tatters. That’s because the digital isn’t a medium, but it’s currently dominating the media field. Digital technology is an expanding network of connective and fusional potentials. You can take an input in any sense modality, and translate or transduce it into any other, say sound into image. You can take any existing genre of artistic practice and fuse it with any other, say animation with cinema. Digital technology has no specificity as a medium in its own right. That is why commentators like Lev Manovich call it a “meta-medium” (2005). But that doesn’t get you very far. From there, the best you can do is catalogue the kinds of connec- tions that are possible and chart their permutations. It leads to an ency- clopedic approach. At best, it gives you a combinatory flowchart, what Manovich calls a remix map. It entirely shelves the question of art and artfulness. It doesn’t give you any vocabulary to think the properly aes- thetic dimension, what makes digital art “art.”
The basic problem is that the concept of media was never well-formed. Theorists have argued endlessly about what defines a medium. Is a medium defined by the material support, say celluloid for cinema? If so, is digital cinema then not cinema? Is a medium defined by the sense modality the product presents itself in—sound for music, vision for cinema? That alter- native misses the absolutely fundamental fact of experience that the senses can take each other up. Michel Chion (1994) made that point about cinema. He showed that it is not visual. It operates through what he calls audiovision, a singular-generic fusion-effect of sound and image that emerges when they operate in resonance with one another. Neither sound nor image, audiovision is a kind of effective cross-resonance between their respective potentials. The cinematic image, according to him, is a singular kind of relational effect that takes off from both vision and audio but is irreducible to either. It comes of how they come together. It’s a thirdness,