a supplement or boosting that needs them both to happen, but isn’t one or the other, even though we say we “watch” a film. It has an experiential quality all its own. It’s not a simple mix. A fusion is more than a mix. We “watch” a film amodally, seeing through the cinematic fusion-effect. We are watching at the immanent limit of vision, seeing sight reel into wormhole, only to bootstrap itself out for another scene. Chion’s analyses of audiovi- sion has the merit of emphasizing the fusional aspect of cinematic experience.
Mixing as a concept just doesn’t go very far either. It has the same limi- tations as the concept of meta-medium. It’s just a general name for the mapping operations that meta-media theory attributes to digital technol- ogy. Both concepts repose on the concept of connectivity. The “mapping” is a charting of interconnectivity—what I talked about earlier as local part- to-part connection. Extrinsic rather than immanent relation. These con- cepts don’t sufficiently problematize interactivity.
Beyond that, there’s the whole problem of the unexamined assumptions about perception that go into the very notion of “mediation.” Perception as I have been trying to talk about it, as Whitehead’s philosophy says, and as embodied cognition also says, is always direct and immediate. It’s always its own self-embracing event, one with its own occurrence.
Chion is pointing us in the right direction when he analyzes cinema as staging a certain kind of experiential fusion-event. For an aesthetic politics, I don’t think you can use a typology based on the media as they’ve been traditionally defined, and then mix and shake. There is philosophical work to be done, concepts to compose, and this has to be done with as much technique, even artfulness, as any other craft. The concepts needed must differentiate between lived qualities of experience as it happens. It must be capable of accounting for different kinds of technically achieved fusion and resonance events.
All arts are occurrent arts. That’s another phrase from Susanne Langer (1953, 121). All arts are occurrent arts because any and every perception, artifactual or “natural,” is just that, an experiential event. It’s an event both in the sense that it is a happening, and in the sense that when it happens something new transpires. There is eventfulness in art, just as there is artfulness in nature. And there is creativity across the board. Because every event  is  utterly  singular,  a  one-off,  even  though  with  and  through  its