one-offness a “likeness” is necessarily thought-felt to a whole population of other events with which it forms an endless series of repeated variations. Langer has probably gone further than any other aesthetic philosopher toward analyzing art-forms not as “media” but according to the type of experiential event they effect.
You have to rethink what the typology is based on, but also what a typology can be logically. It doesn’t have to be a classification system, in the sense of subsuming particulars under an abstract, general idea. It can be based on a differentiating singular-generic thought-feelings. That is to say, it can try to take into account the kind of abstraction that effectively makes a perception what it will have been—the really lived abstraction of that singular thinking-feeling. This is a generative typology, of dynamic forms of perception’s speculative appearing to itself and in itself. It is an immanent typology or a typology of immanence. It amounts to the same thing. The kind of logic called for is what Simondon called allagmatic, an operative logic of the analog expressing “the internal resonance of a system of individuation” (Simondon 2005, 48, 61). This is a diagrammatic logic. It is a logic of individuation, because this kind of typology will have to keep generating variations on itself, as the experience is always being restaged as an event and in the event, recomposed from within. New dynamic forms are always immanently emerging. Art is part and parcel of that process. Its practice speculatively advances its own generative typol- ogy. It practically contributes to its own thinking.
Thinking art is not about imposing a general overlay on its practice. The last thing it should be about is forcing art to fit into another disci- pline’s categories, and holding it to them. It’s about putting art and phi- losophy, theory and practice, on the same creative plane, in the same ripple pool. Art and philosophy, theory and practice, can themselves resonate and effectively fuse. Thinking-feeling art philosophically can intensify art’s speculative edge. It’s totally unnecessary to put theory and practice at odds with each other.
V2 One last question. A lot of your vocabulary might strike people as a new romanticism—all the talk of lived qualities and life-feeling, not to mention oceanic experience, a term you actually used without cringing. What would you say to someone who accused you of doing little more than reviving romanticism for the interactive age?