BM There are worse things to be accused of, I guess. Any time you try to talk about what happens in the world in qualitative terms, you’re bound to be accused of waxing romantic. Personally, I don’t think of it as a romanticism. Remember that the ocean came in drops, and there is as much separation between drops as there is pooling. And the pooling can just as well turn out to be a puddle. Sense of aliveness in a mud-puddle is not terribly exalting. I’m not advocating a romanticism of connection. That’s actually what I’ve been arguing against. Neither is it about an exalta- tion of relation. I try to emphasize that the notion of the virtual requires that all relation actually be seen as a relation-of-nonrelation. Connection and relation, such as they are, are not always exhilarating. They can be terrifying. Or boring. Or restricting. It gets you nowhere to romanticize them. But it is important to give them their due, as much politically as philosophically and artistically, and without imposing a value judgment on them from outside or at a general level. Giving continuity and relation their due also involves doing the same for discontinuity, because they are necessarily implicated in each other. Something that is continuous with itself is so precisely because it detaches its activity from the outside it absolutely lives-in. Also, events continuously unfold, but across their unfolding they inevitably “perish,” as Whitehead would say. Continuity and discontinuity are in reciprocal presupposition. The problem is always to evaluate, case by case, in what way they implicate each other: how they are.
If I am guilty of romanticizing anything, it would be intensity. By inten- sity I mean the immanent affirmation of a process, in its own terms. This is not a stated affirmation. It’s an activity. It’s when a process tends to the limit of what only it can do, and in that act resonantly embraces its own range of variation. It’s not mystical to call that self-affirming “life.” If you like Latin, you can join Spinoza and call it conatus. You can call it many names. The important thing once again is that in each instance you ask and answer “how.” Then it becomes a technical question of ontogenesis, or of the self-production of being in becoming.
Even if you do call it life, that doesn’t necessarily land you in a vitalism, because there is no need to posit a life-substance or life-force “behind” appearances. All you need posit is the appearance of a tendency. A ten- dency, as it appears, is always, only, and entirely in process. But tendency is already a complex notion, because it implies a certain self-referentiality.