Tendency is a performed self-referencing to other states, past and potential. As such, it is a way in which an event in some sense, not necessarily consciously—in fact most often and in large part nonconsciously—feels itself, catches itself in the relational act. And in some sense, not yet sepa- rable from this feeling, nonsensuously thinks itself, in that very same act. This is what Whitehead calls “prehension” and what Deleuze calls “con- templation.” Both authors apply these concepts to all events, whether they occur on organic or inorganic strata. I suspect that this is where many people would part ways. To accompany this kind of thinking, you have to be open to the possibility of rethinking the world as literally made of feel- ings, of prehensive events. The philosophy of the event, in Whitehead’s words, is an immanent “critique of pure feeling” (Whitehead 1978, 113). The feeling is “pure” because it needs no subject—or object for that mat- ter—outside the dynamic form of the event’s own monadic occurrence. You have to be willing to see the world in a semblance. That could be mystical. But then again, it could be a question of technique.
Given that the question of technique is at the core of the approach I’ve been outlining, I like to think of it as a speculative pragmatism, understood as a species of empiricism closely akin to William James’s radical empiricism. This way of formulating might be more companionable to more people. As James defined it, there are five guidelines of radical empiricism. The first it shares with classical empiricism:
1. Everything that is, is in perception (read, if you will: in prehension). Radical empiricism begins to part company with classical empiricism with the next guideline:
2. Take everything as it comes. You cannot pick and choose according to a priori principles or pre-given evaluative criteria. Since things come in lumps as well as singly, this means that:
3. Relations must be accounted as being as real as the terms related. In other words, relations have a mode of reality distinct from that of the discrete objects that appear as terms in relation. The mode of reality of relation is immanent, lived intensely in under conditions of mutual inclu- sion (worldly activation). The separable terms that come to be in relation come in a mode of extrinsic connection, governed by the law of the excluded middle. They are extensively lived-out (functional interaction). The living-in and the living-out are contrasting poles, and coincident