“Let the clean blackboard be a sort of Diagram of the original vague poten- tiality, or at any rate of some early stage of its determination. . . . This blackboard is a continuum of two dimensions, while that which it stands for is a continuum of some indefinite multitude of dimensions. . . . I draw a chalk line on the board. This discontinuity is one of those brute acts by which alone the original vagueness could have made a step toward defi- niteness. There is a certain element of continuity in this line. Where did the continuity come from? It is nothing but the original continuity of the black board which makes everything upon it continuous. What I have really drawn there is an oval line. For this white chalk-mark is not a line, it is a plane figure in Euclid’s sense—a surface, and the only line that is there is the line which forms the limit between the black surface and the white surface. This discontinuity can only be produced upon that blackboard by the reaction between two continuous surfaces into which it is separated, the white surface and the black surface. The white is a Firstness—a springing up of something new. But the boundary between the black and white is neither black, nor white, nor neither, nor both. It is the pairedness of the two. It is for the white the active Secondness of the black; for black the active Secondness of the white” (Peirce 1992b, 261–262).
Something new: First. And with it, simultaneously and indissociably, a Secondness: a visible separation of surfaces. The separation is across an insubstantial boundary, itself imperceptible. Pure edge. Neither black nor white. Not neither not both. A virtual line.
An insubstantial boundary does not effectively enclose. Quite to the contrary, it “actively” connects that which it separates. The virtual line is the activity of relation of the black and the white: a reciprocal coming- Second. It embodies the event of that pairedness. The pure edge invisibly presents the immediacy of spatially and chromatically differentiated sur- faces to each other. That immediacy is also an immediacy of forms. The