virtual line is the event of the oval and the plane coming-together: their belonging to each other. As proto-figures to each other’s oscillating ground.
“Like the ovum of the universe segmented” (Peirce 1992b, 262).
A perceptible difference has emerged from vague potential. The continu- ity of the virtual whole of be-ability has fed forward onto the plane of actual being-different. As been, the whole presents itself twice. Once: in the concrete surface continuity of black and of white. Again: in the pure abstractness of the invisible line separating and connecting the surfaces.
Surfaced, continuity is on either side of a divide. It bifurcates into a perceptual contrast between co-present and disjunct elements. A “co-pres- ence of disjunct elements”: the definition of space. The “integral syn- chrony” of  mutually enfolded  before-afters has  been supplemented  by something planely spatialized. A spatiality is emerging from its own poten- tial time-likeness. It has unfolded as an after, its before almost left behind. Continuity is no longer entirely in self-continuity. It is divided, supple- mentarily, into a double difference-from: direct contrast, spatial and temporal.
The co-surfacing of the oval and the plane does not entirely detach from the continuum of potential. The insubstantial boundary separating and connecting them retains the vagueness of the virtual whole: neither this nor that. Neither black nor white, neither plane nor oval. Rather, the pure activity of their relating. Reciprocally, in their spatial separation. Recur- sively, in a kind of instantaneous oscillation joining the disjunct in mutual Seconding. Actively, reciprocally, recursively. Eventfully: the boundary pre- serves an edge of timelikeness. The virtual line is the virtual whole as it edges, imperceptibly, into the actual. Timelike continuity is drawn out of itself, cutting into the actual, where it appears as pure edging: discontinuity in person. Unenclosing, the line is not a boundary in the usual sense. It is spatializing (its timelike cutting-in constitutes the simultaneity of the sur- facing disjunction). But it is not in itself spatial. The virtual line is less an outline than a limit. It is the processual limit between the virtual and the actual, as one verges actively on the other. The “brute act” of the actual and the virtual relating. Drawing each other, to the verge of formal defini- tion. Contrastive difference is proto-figural: emergently ordered, insubstan- tially bounded.
The defining limit of the proto-figural is doubly an openness. On the level of actual being, it is the active reciprocity of differentiated forms to