qualitatively the same—white-inside separated from white-outside. The “activity” or eventfulness of the contrast is lost, along with its immediacy. What directly strikes the eye is no longer an invisible, yet vaguely palpable, oscillation evocative of infinite potential. Rather, it is the stillness of a figure, standing out.
The stillness of the figure’s inside is echoed, muted, in the white outside against which it stands, mediated by the boundary. Mutual Secondness of black-Firstness and white-Firstness is replaced by boundaried offset of white against white. The boundary sets same against same. The only dif- ference between white and white is the relative emphasis of foreground over background. What comes with the edge is no longer a singularly direct, qualitative difference in perception. It is a relative emphasis of qualitative  homogeneity.
The direct “pairedness” of pure, open contrast is replaced by an opposi- tion between mediated sames. The opposition is an effect of the figure’s perceptual closure, its boundaried enclosure. The white outside is limited to a neutral backgrounding for the inside’s standing out. The figure’s stand- ing out is passively delimited by that standing back. Outside, inside are offset against each other as different regions defined by the boundary: they are spatialized. Figure, ground, and their across-the-boundary relation are spatialized. They are set in place relative to each other. The edgy activity of relation no longer presents itself as it did before. Where once was a singularly direct Seconding across the absolute limit of a time-like edge of no dimension, there is now a spatial relativity of figure to ground across the inky blackness of a filled-in boundary.
The emergent activity of relation has given place to the stable relativity of disjunct gestalt result. The oval’s standing out stands still in space, as if it had stepped out of time. The stillness of figure seems to stand in space for a species of eternity: a particular instance of a Platonic form. The sin- gularity of an edging into existence has yielded to the appearance of a particular instance of a general type.
The ovum of the universe, as been. Hatched eternal.
Look closely, and you will still almost-see the invisible edge of each constituent mark. Use your imagination. Each mark is imperceptibly bounded by a virtual line. Thus the marks never effectively intersect. There are cracks between them. Since they do not intersect, they never actually form   a   boundary.   Their   iteration   fractally   multiplies   the   cracks,