intensifying edginess. The unity of the figure is actually composed of a cross-proliferation of virtual cracks. The unity is abstract, superadded as a perceptual bridge across the cracking. The super-oval resulting from the bridging in-fill is not so much seen as overseen. Look closely, and you will see the bridging, you will undersee the seething cracks. Activity, under-still. As the figure crumbles into the cracks it straddles, the background rearises from its mute subordination. Whites and blacks rebecome reciprocating proto-figures to each other’s oscillating ground, or grounding oscillation, their active contrast afloat in a deepening virtual abyss. Hatched eternity dissolves back into a vaguely timelike coming together of qualitative dif- ferings-from, immediately grounded in a co-flotation of Seconding: recip- rocally self-standing.
The fuller the unity of the figure, the better actualized the figure, the more multiply and intensely the virtual edges in upon it. The more pas- sively the figure stands out in its unity, the more actively its multiplying constituents reciprocally self-stand. The undermining insistence of the virtual is a complementary and inverse movement to the actualization of the figure. The virtual is gestalted out of the picture by the same iterative process that fractals it in ever more deeply. Double articulation between levels: of emergent proto-figural activity and its resulting figurative annulment.
Double vision. Looking more or less closely, focusing more or less atten- tively, the eye oscillates between the annulment of the process and its activity. Flicker. Between fully-hatched stability and continuing, cracked emergence. Flicker. Between the made and the making. Flicker. Between seeing the figurative stability and seeing the imperceptible float of figural potential. Flicker. The eye tires of the flicker. It habituates to bridge-level stability. The eye is the organ of habitual oversight.
The figure is an habitual inattention to the imperceptible in vision.