their respective levels, all of these emerge from the edge of illumination. For the simple reason that light scatters. Its scatter carries interference pat- terns, gaps, and gradients of intensity: lines of proto-figural differentiation. This “ambient light array” is what literally strikes the eye. (Gibson 1986, 65–92). A chaos of vision. For not only does the array continually change, but a body is always moving: a complex coupling of two continual varia- tions. Even more: the flicker almost-seen in emergent form is prefigured by jitter. “Saccade”: the constant, involuntary micro-jerking of the eyeballs in their sockets. If the jerking stops, vision blanks out. Vision arises from the addition of random jitter to a complex coupling of two continual variations. How do unity of form, stability of spatial relation, constancy of color and brightness, and linearity of time derive from these impossibly complex, chaotic conditions? We already know the answer: by superadding to the seen.
The continual variation draws the proto-figural lines of the ambient array across the gaps between the rods and cones, across the nose hole, and across the blindspots. The discontinuities are giddily bridged by a continuity of movement. The bridging does not yield a unified figure or stability of ground. It yields a complex of moving lines of light continuing across invisible abysses of darkness. Proto-bridges of continuity, self-stand- ing, over a void of vision.
To get an emergent figure, you need to add senses other than vision. In particular, touch and proprioception, the registering of the displacements of body parts relative to each other. Say a varying complex of light-lines comes to the eye with a change in proprioception. Intersensory conjunc- tion: the first complex of moving light-lines segues into another. With the new complex comes a feeling from an outstretched hand: intersensory conjunction. Say the two intersensory conjunctions repeat. Next, their repetition is anticipated. Habit. The anticipation is recursive, since it arises retrospectively from an iteration of already repeated line crossings and conjunctions. Habit is the actual experience of a before-after, in a continu- ity of present conjunction. Of course there are also smell and hearing. A panoply of before-afters merge into and emerge out of each other, bearers one of the other, folded together by habit. The folding together fuses an infinite continuum of potential crossings and conjunctions, befores and afters, into the singularity of an event of perception. A vague, unbounded virtual whole self-presents without actually appearing: abstract “ovum” of