an experiential universe emergent. “When any particular kind of feeling is present, an infinitesimal continuation of all feelings differing infinitesi- mally from that is present.” “Development essentially involves a limita- tion” of that abstractly felt potential.
Say that on the level that limitatively develops, the two conjunctions just described will be experienced as seeing an edge (complex of light- lines), moving around it (proprioception), and touching something behind that was occluded but is now visible (new complex of light-lines). The new complex of light-lines is a second occlusion: there are still other things behind the thing behind. Focus on what the habituating eyes register: an edge, then an edge. After the habit has set in, the second edge will come with the first edge, in anticipation, before the movement around. It will also come after the movement. Double articulation: before-after. Of course, the second edge will come after the first differently than it preceded itself: with a touch and a proprioception. The before-after that is seen with the first edging is a simultaneous disjunction of surfaces: a germ of space, a barely-there of navigable depth to move into. The anticipated coming-after differently is a germ of linear time. The self-difference of the second edge
—the difference it encompasses between its coming after something else and its preceding itself—is the germ of its identity as an object: its predict- ability, its sameness across its variations, its reaccessibility time after time, its dependable just-thereness.
Experiments have verified that a “surface . . . being uncovered [is] seen to pre-exist before being revealed” (Gibson 1986, 190). The identity of the object is seen. Again with different emphasis: the identity of the object is seen. Identity is a recursive (before-after) unity added by habit to the sight of a simultaneous disjunctive difference. Identified, the edging associated with the object thickens into a stable contour. What now appears through the edging is not a simple boundary but a 3D contour. The light arrays habitually conjoined with the inside of the contour detach from the ambient array, and come to be seen as the object’s color. The color makes the object stand out, a visible 3D figure gestalting its way into the bright- ness of being against a muted background onto which it casts its shadow. Form and depth co-emergent. The ovum of the universe segmented: into contrasting objects separated together. Together: adjacent in space. Sepa- rate: succeeding each other in time. “Of the continuity of feeling we can now  form  but  a  feeble  conception.”  That  “feeble  conception”  is  the