identity of the object in space, persisting stepwise across time. Identity is the emergent activity of relation gone plodding.
The continuity intensely continues apace with the plodding. When identity is seen, what is being seen is an anticipated next touch conjoined with an anticipated next proprioception conjoined with an anticipated second vision. The eye is functioning synesthetically to see the unseeable. To oversee touch, proprioception, and its own present, skipping over the here-now of its own formative activity, fed forward in anticipation of there- afters. An anticipated touch, proprioception, or vision is a potential touch, proprioception, or vision. The overseen is unseen potential. The unity of identity, the simplicity, of the resulting object has been limitatively extracted from the complex chaos. That chaos continues to be seen, feebly: underseen in the form of identity. The chaos must continue for the object to have something to reemerge from, as anticipated. Double vision: figura- tive or objective order out of iteration;  and  a  continuing  chaos  of light ever-dawning. Vision abstractly oversees order by synesthetically superadding habit’s abstractions to the singular immediacy of its ever-renewing chaos.
The objective extraction of identity arises out of movement. Vision’s synesthetic result stands on an oscillating kinesthetic “ground.” Perceived stability and order emerge from perceptual chaos. Vision is the process of that passage: from the giddiness of light-struck eyes to the practical grip of abstract oversight. From the invisible abyss of the proto-figural to rela- tive objective clarity.
Each time eye jitter draws an edge with the world’s continual variation, a whole universe of potential abstractly appears to vision in the form of a particular object among others, inhabiting the same order in space and time. The edge effects a synesthetic-kinesthetic emergence layering levels (objective foreground /background, potential next, virtual continuity) and an ordering of identities (in an emergent space-time of experience).