cracked opened a whole universe of proto-figural relation. You have invoked the virtual. You have called the potential it enfolds toward exis- tence. Nothing substantial has come of it. The potential is as yet only felt, synesthetically-kinesthetically in vision renewing. But only-felt is almost something. And already a great deal virtually: an infinitesimal continuing of all feeling. Any more, and it would come to less. The virtual would actualize, limitatively.
Go for more (and less). Draw more lines, until a geometric figure defines itself. You have figuratively closed the virtual world by selecting one from its infinity of felt potentials. You have limitatively actualized the virtual.
There is nothing to be done. Except to draw another line. Return to the edge, see and feel the relation. Enclose its active potential again in another figure.
At each repetition, you draw forth an infinite continuum of experiential potential, then selectively deactivate it. You invoke active powers of exis- tence, and move to enfeeble them. Renew, annul. Existential flicker.
The annulment of powers of existence is all the more enfeebling when more than one figure are laid side by side on a single page. The disjunctive germ-space of pure contrast, flickering with the timelikeness of each mark’s virtual edge, disappears. The page is now a neutralized space of compari- son. Difference is no longer active. Active contrast has been passified into an opposition: a planely separated either/or. Either the figures are the same, or they are not. Either they share an identity, or they do not. Sameness, or mutual exclusion.
An opposition is not a duality in the Peircean sense. Duality is the self- standing positivity of still-active contrast, pure unmediated “pairedness”: the Secondness of a mutual Firstness springing forth from the formative chaos of vision. Either/or applies to the already-sprung: completed figures. It applies to the completed with an automatic view to a value judgment: either/or, for better or for worse. Before an assessment of value can be made, the question of whether the figures share an identity, whether they are the same or whether they are mutually exclusive, must be answered. Better or worse makes no sense applied to the same. Their identities must be assessed. The only way to assess them is to compare them to each other while comparing both against standards of identity . . . and the standard makes three.