applied to a figure or an objective form to overlay a value judgment on it is also a diagram. Used as a model, it projects a figure’s Platonic form, and an objective identity normatively conforming to it, into a new construc- tion. In so doing, it selectively transfers to the thing under construction certain “characters” that have forwarded through the process. The “char- acters” are less the proto-figure, figure, or objective form as such than the potentials that carry across them. It is these potentials that are selectively lifted out of the continuum of variation, filter through the phases, and go to ground as the concretization of a model.
Blank slate—singular proto-figure—stable figure—object identity—ideal standard—general model. All of these are diagrams in their own right, each in its own way. Each step in the process by which potentials lift into exis- tence, filter through, and plot into a new construction, is also a diagram according to Peirce’s just cited. In the most extended sense of the word, the entire process is its own occurrent diagram.
The resulting new construction is an added existence. Pragmatically speaking, its diagram is the toolbox of techniques—from seeing to over- seeing, from habitual inattention to attentive habit, from comparison to judgment, from judging to plotting, from projecting to constructing—that went into shepherding a select set of potentials into the concreteness of the construction’s added existence. The diagram in this sense is a con- structivist technique of existence. It is a technique of bringing to new exis- tence. A technique of becoming. Becoming-concrete. Becoming, determined. If, as Peirce’s definition says, diagramming is abstraction— an extraction of potential—then the very process of becoming determinately concrete is a process of abstraction (Whitehead 1967b, 51–55, 157–179; 1978, 7–8).
This is where the questions begin. What, after all, is a “suitable” abstrac- tion? If the abstraction process produces an interlocking of proto-figure, figure, form of identity, standard, model, and construction is a process of becoming, then the question becomes: which becoming? Why? To suit whom or what? If becoming involves passing through phases selective of potentials, the question is: which phases, for what potentials? If the passage toward the final determination of the construct is limitative, the question is: is that the end of the story?
It isn’t, because there is still the question of how limitative, and in what way. Perhaps all processes of abstraction for becoming-concrete are not