equal. Perhaps there are abstractive techniques of existence that curtail the role of Platonic forms and skip the standardizing judgment phase. Perhaps there are nonstandard constructivisms (Migayrou 2004).
A nonstandard constructivism would no longer be a modeling. It would not select one set of potentials in conformity with a projected identity. It might, for example, select several sets of potentials that do not habitually share the same space or before-after each other in an easily anticipated way. This would overdetermine the construction. Overdetermination makes the construct problematic. Left at that, a nonstandard diagramming tech- nique is deconstructive. A deconstructive architecture combines what are normally defined as “mutually exclusive or opposing spatial strategies” into a single architectural element (Eisenman 1994, 21). For example, a corridor that at first approach seems to end incongruously in a wall. The potentials for passage and for enclosure are overdetermined. These moments of incongruity and overdetermination punctuate the architecture with interruptors (“inversions,” subversions). The aim is to momentarily subvert the normative course of architectural practice and inhabitation, in order to make a self-referential statement about architecture’s “interior.” To the extent that it aims to construct a statement, deconstructive practice remains “authorial” (Eisenman 1999, passim).
A different nonstandard abstractive technique of existence might plot into a construction triggers for on-the-fly selections of potential that give pause, not primarily to interrupt and make a statement, but to invite and enable an effective variation on continuing. These would be variously determined, circumstantially, at particular junctures, in the course of the movements that come to pass through the building. In other words, the seeing/unseeing, potentially touching, always propriocepting, tirelessly kinesthesing, constantly jittered, self-emphasizing, dynamic forms of embodiment that finally enter in—the architectural “clients” and “stakeholders”—are invited to continue the diagramming process to suit themselves. They are invited to inhabit as embodied coauthors of the architectural process, prolonged. Triggers are built in that jolt the emergent proto-figural level to reappear, in abstract oscillation with other levels. The continuum of potential is now un-unseen, without becoming objectively visible. Instead:  intersensorily  felt  to  flicker  with  the  objective  forms. Rather than one or the other, continuum of potential or objective vision, it would be the stroboscopic flicker between them that would momentarily