foreground itself at the trigger-juncture. Built in at strategic points would be an eventful, flickering vagueness of resurgent abstraction doubling vision. The process will have constructively brought back out the contin- uum of abstract potential. The presence of the full continuum of potential allows the experience to toggle between sets of potential. This is neither inversion nor subversion. It is intensification.
Whatever figures, formal identities, and even ideal standards and general models that may also be built in alongside the trigger-juncture are submit- ted to the flicker of intensity. They do not dominate. They do not defini- tively foreground themselves. “Indicators and bearers of each other,” they collaborate in the toggling. They are no longer limitations, as they are in standard, normative architecture. They are no longer constraining. They are the enabling constraints of a renewed selection. The selective renewal is of the kind that composes an “alteration of a complete spectrum” of lived experience. It brings back to life its virtual color and shadow, in all their intersensory textures. It recharges the activity of relating from which all experience emerges. Becomings continue, in a prolonged chromatics of variation. Ovum of the universe edgily re-segmented.
Not deconstruction: continued construction. Reconstruction, on the fly. Not interruption: recharging, resaturation with potential. For deconstruc- tive strategies, architecture is a “scene of writing” (Eisenman 1999, 26–35). For reconstructive strategies, it is a platform for diagrammatic reemergence. Deconstructive strategies pointedly interrupt the event of architecture. Reconstructive strategies fluidly continue it.
None of this makes any sense if space is considered to be the medium of architecture. Seen reconstructively, “spatial strategies” create the space of inhabiting experience. This inhabiting event is the medium of architec- ture. The architectural space of inhabiting-experience is always the result of the diagrammatic process of architectural abstraction becoming- concrete, as a prolonged event. What architecture recomposes in new variations are not pre-given spatial elements. What it recomposes is the experience of inhabitation itself. Architecture is a diagrammatic art of lived abstraction: lived-in abstraction, in a quite literal sense. For nonstandard reconstructive architecture, the inhabiting experience is also the continu- ing product: the medium made eventfully renewable, beyond the final plotting of the design.
Skipping the standardized judgment phase means that new forms of Thirdness   must   be   invented.   Only   an   intervention   of   Thirdness