can regulate becoming in any way, whether normatively for stability, or self-renewably for the existential flicker of reappearing potential. Because that’s what Thirdness is: regulated passage from one phase to another. Essentially, that means “habit-taking” (Peirce 1992a, 277). But it also means “law.” Law in its “original” sense is nothing other than the regularity of habit acquired in the chaotic course of emergent experience (276). In a derivative sense, law is an imposition of habit from on high, through the mediating influence of a comparative standard or normative model. It is the challenge of any architectural process that wishes to live up to its voca- tion for living-in diagrammatic abstraction to invent techniques of coming to architectural existence that do not model in the traditional sense. That reinvent pliable “laws” of architectural design in the “original” sense, where the emergence of regularity “mingles” with a “lawless” element of “pure spontaneity.” In a flicker with chance. Law then returns to the “pure chance” and vague “indeterminacy” it “developed out of” from the First (276). So that it repeats the act of emergence. Evolutionary law fueled by chance. Architecture reinventing itself, as it reinvents new techniques for mingling chaos and regularity toward the determination of new architec- tural form.
What a design practice of this kind does is meta-model, in the way Félix Guattari speaks of it (in a very different sense of “meta-” than in Manovich’s “meta-media,” discussed in chapter 2 above; Guattari 1995, 22, 33, 127– 128; Genosko and Murphie 2008). “Meta-” is to be understood here in its etymological sense of “among.” It refers not to the on-high of the ideal, but on the contrary to the spontaneous remingling of acquired regularities of practice with the emergence-level chance and indeterminacy from which they evolved. The practice itself is not of course chaotic. A commingling of habit or law with spontaneity is at most quasi-chaotic (James 1996a, 63–65). Meta-modeling is a practice that strategically returns its process to the quasi-chaotic field of its own emergence, in order to regenerate itself as it generates new figures, forms, and constructs, for itself and others. So that both the discipline, and its clients and stakeholders, live-in a fullness of potential, as part of a continuing process. Commingling: activity of relat- ing. Techniques of existence are techniques of relation.
Since what is relationally modulated with remingling technique is potential, meta-modeling can be considered the procedure of the specula- tive pragmatism suggested by the radical empirical perspective.