(Michotte  1963,  14–15).  We  are  directly  experiencing  momentum,  to which nothing visible corresponds as such.
We are presented with a double existence whenever we perceive a move- ment involving a change of state. With the dot, the change was a disap- pearance. With the balls, it was causal, an impact effecting a launch. It could be any number of other things, as well: for example, a “tunneling” (one object ‘seen’ to pass behind another and come out the other side); an “entraining” (one object approaching another and dragging or carrying it off); an “ampliation” (a relay or spread of movement); an attraction, repul- sion, or resistance; or, suggestively, an “animation” (a self-propulsion). The variations are endless. But what they all have in common is that accom- panying a plurality of forms or a combination of sensory inputs there is a felt-perception of something unitary: a continuing across that seamlessly links the separate elements or inputs as belonging to the same change.
A continuing-across is by nature a nonlocal linkage, since all of the sepa- rate elements participate in it simultaneously from their individual posi- tions. It is a “well-known fact” that these seamless linkages “do not show any observable resemblance” to the objective combinations involved (Michotte 1963, 225). How could they? The linkage is what the objects share through their combination: implication in the same event. The felt perception of continuing movement is qualitative because it directly grasps the changing nature of the shared event ‘behind,’ ‘across,’ or ‘through’ its objective ingredients and their observable combinations. It is, simply: relationship. Directly perceptually-felt; “nonsensuously” perceived.1
Now say you walk out of the pool hall and instead of billiard balls you see a car approach another stopped at a traffic light and then collide into it, launching it a few feet forward. The objective ingredients are obviously different. As is the overall affective tenor (about which more later). The perceptual feeling of the continuing-across of movement, however, is unmistakeably similar.
The two continuings share what Daniel Stern calls an “activation contour”: a continuous rhythm of seamlessly linked accelerations and decelerations, increases and decreases in intensity, starts and stops (Stern 1985, 57). The linkage that is the perceptually felt movement has “detached itself” not only from the balls in the first combination, but from that combination altogether. It has migrated from one objective combination to another, neither of which it resembles in any observable way. What the linkage