of musical notes. The operative traces that are activation contours are in no way restricted to vision. They link events of vision to other-sense events.
“Amodal” is a more robust concept for this than the more usual “cross- modal transfer.” The term cross-modal is used to refer to a “transfer” between different sense modes—forgetting that what comes and goes between them, what actively appears in their interstices as the perceptual feeling of their co-occurring, is itself, strictly speaking, in no mode. It is the direct perception of what happens between the senses, in no one mode. All and only in their relation. Purely nonsensuous. Abstract. What is felt abstractly is thought. The perceptual feeling of the amodal is the funda- mentally nonconscious thinking-feeling of what happens between.
Now instead of thinking of the path of an object along a world-line, think of a body traveling its life-path from situation to situation, recog- nized object to recognized object, encounter to encounter. That life-path is a world-line intersecting with those of objects, but following its own orientation. At each encounter along the way, an activation contour non- sensuously self-detaches. At each step, operative traces declare their inde- pendence, making themselves amodally available for yoking diverse events, across distances in space and time, and across registers of experience. Each trace joins others, accumulating in a qualitative universe all their own.
Up until now in this account, there has been an implicit presupposition of an already constituted subject of experience observing objects as they encounter each other and enter into  combination.  In  a  word,  there has been a supposition of a self. But selves emerge. We are not born into “the” world. We are thrown into worlding. Amodal experience, and the qualitative universe of nonsensuous similarity it composes, are active in the constitution of the self worlding. The qualitative order plays an active role in that constitution. It participates in emergence. It plays an ontogenetic role.