the word. Alternatively, the parent could silently stroke the baby’s back or head with a stroke following the same activation contour as the ‘There, there’ sequence, applying more pressure at the onset of the stroke and lightening or trailing off toward the end. If the duration of the contoured stroke and the pauses between strokes were of the same absolute and rela- tive durations as the vocalization-pause pattern, the infant would experi- ence similar activation contours no matter which soothing technique was performed. The two soothings would feel the same (beyond their sensory specificity)” (Stern 1985, 58). This is the onset of a spontaneous self- organizing of experience. Instead of experiencing a spoken-word parent and a separate stroking-touch parent, the two parenting events yoke together, across their sensory, spatial, and temporal disparities, by virtue of the nonsensuous similiarity of their activation contour. There is one seamless soothing-parent. A new entity, the amodal parent-form, emerges as a func- tion of the amodal activation contour, whose lived quality is affective (a soothing).
The affective nature of the new form of life that emerges prompts Stern to rename activation contours vitality affects. The world is not reducible to the recognized ability of objective form to conserve its sensuous identity in each of its serial appearings in different locations. On the contrary, that ability is the product of another power: that of “unrecognized,” nonsensu- ous, affective, linkages that bring “extremely diverse” nonlocal differences together qualitatively. Affect brings form qualititatively to life.
Vitality affects give rise to forms of life that are fundamentally shared.3 The soothing, like a launching, is a unitary continuing-across: from voice to ear, hand to back, hearing to touching. It is all and only in the linkage, which is the separate province of neither infant nor parent. The emergent parent-form is in fact an amodal coming to life of the relation between parent and child, through difference-yoking repetition.