then close, arms flutter then still, in rhythm with the soothings. The child’s movements have their own activation contour, across sense modalities of taste, vision, tactility, and proprioception.
The child’s activation contour parallels that of the parent’s, in counter- point. The child does not imitate the parent. What the child does bears no resemblance to what the parent does. The child accompanies the parent, in an orchestration of movements between their bodies. The parent’s move- ments have an activation contour. The child’s have another. And the shared experience has an encompassing activation contour in the pattern of point-counterpoint passing between them. The overall activation contour takes up the difference between the parent’s and the child’s movements into its own complex unity of orchestration. This is what the two partici- pants in the event share: differential involvement in the same event. A relational sharing of what comes between, from different angles of inser- tion into a single unfolding. A cross-embodied attunement of immediately linked activations orchestrating a nondecomposable in-between (Stern 1985, 138–142).
The cross-embodied attunements are affective attunements. They are affective in a broader sense than Stern’s definition of vitality affect as acti- vation contour. The activation contour carries a qualitative flavor that is more than a movement-quality as such. Soothing is a quality of life- experience that comes with the movements, but is not reducible to the dynamic form that is their vitality affect. The relational quality of soothing that comes with the overall activation contour is like an affective atmo- sphere suffusing and surrounding the vitality affects involved. It is an affective tonality. The vitality affect contributes a singular quality of liveness to this event. The affective tonality expresses the kind of liveness that is this event’s: its generic quality. It marks its species. The vitality affect is the perceptual feeling of the region of being and becoming that the sharing under way exemplifies—a soothing versus a fright or frustration. Vitality affect plus affective tonality make every form–of-life singular-generic. The singularity refers to the “just so” of this event. The genericness is not to be confused with the objective identity brought to difference following an actual world-line. Rather, it refers to a diversity of events whose singular just-so’s are directly, perceptually-felt to belong together, across any dis- tance at which they might occur. It refers to the qualitative self-grouping of events felt to belong to the same region of the universe of nonsensuous