experience. The genericness of an event is with it from its first occurrence. It is the “like this” of the “just so”: a fore-echo of return. When once was soothing, more may come. And that “moreness” is integral to the feeling of what happened.4
Affective tonality is an essential factor in making the event do what it does and be what it was (Whitehead 1967a, 176, 180, 215–216). For it is not inconceivable that the same activation contours that in this situation add up to a soothing might under other circumstances participate in another form of life, and come like a fright. The relational “form of life” of which it is a question in any given instance is vitality affect plus affec- tive tonality: indissociably both. The form of life being lived is composed of their immediate, mutual inclusion in the event. The affective attun- ement is thus not just between the component activation contours point- counterpointing into a shared dynamic pattern. It is also the tuning into each other, for this event, of the two affective dimensions of vitality affect and affective tonality.
Affective attunement is transindividual (Simondon 2005, 251–253, 293– 316). At this level, there is not yet an interaction between two selves. It is all in the occurrent between. The word “form”—either in the special sense of a form-of-life or in the more usual sense of an objective form—does not yet apply to the pointing or counterpointing considered each on its own side. It is only much later that the different angles of insertion into the parental relation will diverge from each other and come to be experienced by both parties as belonging to separate lives each with its own form. The spontaneous constraint of life’s qualitative self-organization is that the autonomy of movement upon which it is predicated counterindicates the independence of the forms that originate from it. It is the separation of forms that is learned—not their dynamic relations.
The child will eventually learn to separate out what it actually hears, touches, and sees from what it perceptually feels amodally in the relational in-between of bodies. The aural, tactile, visual (not to mention propriocep- tive) sense-inputs on each side will be yoked together, yielding two oppos- ing locuses of linkage. The activation contours on either side, parent and child, will detach from their necessarily coming-together. They will begin to diverge, following different life-paths: world-lines. What reappears following each world-line will be recognized in different times and places, involved with various combinations of objects. The recognized