the billiard balls or cars were. The spectator is just as absorbed in the col- lision, on the level of his nascent actions. He is riveted into affective attunement, in instantaneous reenaction. Action is only half the event: action-reenaction; rhythm-reverberation; point, virtual counterpoint. Thus everything that was just said of the parent-child relation applies to the direct perception of change involving what we normally think of as con- stituted objects entering into combination. What is happening is a new occurrence of the primary coming-together in qualitative relation that, ontogenetically speaking, is prior to any separation of self-identities fol- lowing their individual world-lines. In every event of perception, there is a differential co-involvement in the dynamic unity of one and the same occurrence. The differential is between roles, or manners of direct involve- ment in the event (active, reenactive; rhythmic, reverbatory). Every move- ment has an activation contour, a rhythm of activity: vitality affect. Affective tonality, for its part, comes with reenaction. It occurs between the action and the reenaction, the rhythm and the reverberation, express- ing their mutual inclusion in the same event. The affective tonality—the excitement of dropping a billiard ball in a pocket, the fear of a car crash, the soothe of a gesture—is no less a constitutive factor than the respective events’ activation contours. It comes flush with the instantaneous between of their action-reenaction.
It is in fact the objective order of the world that first “detaches” itself from the multidimensioned affective/qualitative-relational order of experi- ence to which it owes its emergence. The detachment of the qualitative- relational order and the objective order is mutual. This means that the separable forms that objectively co-populate the world are themselves traces. Objects are traces of their own detachment from the order of imme- diately attuned, affectively inflected, direct perception that gave rise to them. They continue nonconsciously to belong to that qualitative-rela- tional order, and contribute to it, to the degree that they enter into new combinations and the combinations change. Each new event retraces the world’s qualitative order, even as it advances by a step the world’s objective ordering. Each time we experience an event, we are nonconsciously return- ing to our own and the world’s emergence. We are in re-worlding. We are reattuning, and reindividualizing. The ontogenesis of forms of life contin- ues. New attunements are added to the diversity of events that can be yoked  across  distances  in  space  and  time.  With  each  event,  we  are