each other in great systems, they outstrip the tardy consecutions of the things in themselves, and sweep us on towards our ultimate termini in a far more labor-saving way than following of trains of sensible perception ever could” (James 1996a, 64).
Thought, taken up in language, raises the affective autonomy of the qualitative-relational order constitutive of forms of life to a higher power. Language is a labor-saving machine for accelerating and intensifying life activity, thought-skipping the “tardy consecutions” of sensuous percep- tions. Language is a thought-machine for adding nonsensuous degrees of freedom to activity. It is a machine for remixing world-lines, skipping us down the lines and cross-jumping us from one line to another. This remix ability enlarges the parameters for the reindividuation of forms of life, beginning from the nonsensuous traces of the affective/qualitative- relational realm and moving back into the sensuous realm of actual action among sense-perceived objects.
James, however, goes on to say that “ninety-nine times out of a hundred” our ideas are actually “unterminated perceptually.” It is only as an excep- tion that our thinking effectively reenters the objective order of things to reach a sensuous terminus. It continues on its own path, past the sensuous, making termini thought-felt only in order to keep on moving on. “To continue,” he writes, “is the substitute for knowing” in the “completed” sensuous sense (James 1996a, 69). Thought keeps on skipping, with the all the rapidity language can muster. It keeps on living nonsensuous abstrac- tion’s moving on.
Whitehead remarked that in the highly abstractive movement of lan- guage, nonsensuous perceptions may detach so thoroughly from objects that the “sense-perceived meanings” are entirely lost. Crucial for the present account, the direct perception of their relations is not lost. Direct perception of relational qualities of movement and change continues with the movement of language. Affective attunement continues. The nonsen- suous universe of life’s qualities of relation goes on expanding. The living of life’s abstraction goes on going on.
As taken up in language, the thinking-feeling that is nonsensuous per- ception is exonerated from having to move with the actual displacements of the ongoing event matrix that is the body, as it follows its path through the world. Now the thinking-feeling can follow the flow of words, freed from  objective  constraints.  The  infinitely  rapidly  permutating  flow  of