correspondence is left at odd ends ninety-nine percent of the time seriously skews the putative symmetry between language and its sense validation, scrambling any unambiguous anchoring of language and thought in ref- erential function. The relation of language to the sensible, even in the rare cases it does terminate, is not fundamentally referential, but demonstra- tive: that way; there we go; this is it. Words point-toward, in active tending, more than they pin down, in logically fixed designation (James 1996a, 55). “Pure demonstration,” however, “is impossible,” Whitehead says (1964, 10). (Oddly, he also uses the challenge of finding a campus building as an example of a terminus—evidence perhaps of philosophers’ legendary pro- pensity to lose themselves in thought). Pure demonstration is impossible, according to Whitehead, because a demonstrative gesture always takes place  against  an  inexhaustible  background  of  shared  presuppositions. Without a tacit truncation of what is meant, the tending-toward would get lost in a thicket of complicating detail. It is necessary to skip potential intermediaries all the more concertedly, in order to get anywhere with language. The impossibility of pure demonstration, Whitehead observes, means that demonstration is always essentially speculative (Whitehead 1964, 6). Language has more fundamentally to do with speculation than designation, or any form of one-to-one correspondence between words and things. There is always, implied in a linguistic gesture and the thinking it advances, the tacit complication of an ambulation—the potential unfold- ing of an event against a weltering background. “Thus the ultimate fact for sense-awareness is the event” (Whitehead 1964, 15). The ultimate fact—
the truth—is the event and the welter of potential steps it navigates.
The speculative nature of language is underlined by James’s remark that in the ambulatory meaning-and-truth process any actual movements advancing meaningfully along world-lines present themselves first virtu- ally, in a pre-thinking-speaking of their terminus. Language projects world-lines in advance of themselves. It foretraces. Truthsaying is the lan- guage-assisted translation of virtually thought-felt foretracings into actu- ally followed action-paths. If the action-path terminates in sense-perception as the tending-toward speculatively anticipated, it is because the unfolding event has succeeded in navigating the welter of the world. The event’s unfolding has accomplished a preoriented selection of intermediary link- ages advancing stepwise through sensuous experience, aided at every turn by a backgrounded universe of unspoken, barely thought presuppositions.