The ambulatorily-challenged professor can and does get lost in thought and the meanders of language, as we all do at times. The pragmatic-truth potential of language is sometimes weltered-out by the backgrounded crowd of virtual paths and termini coming undemonstratively to the fore. When the event falls too heavily on the speculative side of the coin, we lose the ability to follow through a particular tending-toward to its sensible terminus in stepwise attunement to selectively demonstrative sense- perception. We are lost in too-open-range foretracing. We—our events’ unfoldings—are absorbed in speculation. The selectively oriented segueing from virtual foretracing to sensibly sign-posted ambulation is in suspense. Tending-toward does not sensuously terminate. Rather than ambulating, it ambles on. This is imagination: suspended ambulation. In imagination, we are speculatively absorbed in a universe of nascent actions whose ter- minus-tending unfolding is inhibited. We are free-range navigating the nonsensuous side of the world’s double ordering.
This ambling navigating of the nonsensuous side can end up in delu- sion. This occurs when it is forgotten that the event unfolding is a suspen- sion of ambulation, and premature conclusions about sensuous termini are drawn in the absence of the stepwise conditions for their demonstrative fulfillment. It is not the free-range ambling on the nonsensuous side that is delusional. What is delusional is taking the ambling for a good-enough substitute for an effective ambulation, forgetting that pure demonstration is impossible. Delusion is not a disorder of the imagination, or of thought per se. It is a defective expression of the positive power of thought-as- imagination to free-range foretrace, with the meanderings of language. Delusion is in fact a disorder of the language factor involved. We are delu- sional when we forget that the operation of language is not essentially one of designation, that it is never purely demonstrative. We are delusional