semblance of an event. As indicated in the opening citations from Benja- min, semblance is another word for nonsensuous similarity.
Another way of approaching this is to say that through the activity of language, the directly felt qualities of experience present in bodies and objects in nonsensuous trace-form can cross over into each other with greatest of ease, incomparably increasing the world’s potential for self- organizing. The activity of language involves a becoming-active of nonlo- cal perceptual linkages in their own nonsensuous right. The more active they are in their own right, the greater the number of directly felt- connections they can muster among themselves. This expands their aggre- gate relational potential. More events, more distantly related in actuality, come into each other’s orbit. Their coming into each other’s orbit can be repeated in words, and varied with verbal permutations. The ever-varied repetitions invent new permutations on abstract thinking-feeling.
This is entailed by the doctrine of reenaction discussed above: the sen- sible production of a word reenacts a nonsensuous attunement event. The reenaction is in nascent action. A nascent action is the reenaction of a tendency to action. Tendential reenaction recedes by degrees to the limit of the virtual: a tendency to reenact a tendency is itself a reenaction. As is a tendency to reeenact a tendency to reenact a tendency—ad infinitum. The virtual limit, never actually reached, is where the feeling side of the think- ing-feeling of language tendentially fades out. The last traces of the sensible go mute, leaving pure unverbalized thought. Reenaction purified of any trace of sense modality: pure amodal reality. No longer beholden to the empirical order of the senses, thought, at the limit, throws off the shackles of reenaction. It becomes directly enactive—of virtual events. It becomes purely, virtually active, producing nonsensuous similarities: activation con- tours never felt, but already virtually reverberating; abstract dynamic forms of future-feeling; vitality affects awaiting encounter. Language cannot reach this directly future-feeling limit of thought. But in imagination, it can approach it. When it does, words resonate with virtual thought-events lying on the linguistic horizon. Language fore-echoes with amodal inven- tion. It vibrates with nonsensuously inventive activity. It becomes-active in resonance with pure thought. It is this partnership with pure thought that makes language the “most complete archive” of “semblances in which nothing”—that is, pure thought, pure amodal reality—“appears.”
The creative power of language resides in its capacity to echo in its own operation  virtual  events  lying  amodally  on  its  horizon.  The  infinite