The nonsensuous similarity produced by a bringing-abstractly-together of two component sensuous events results from the echoing of the events in each other, within or across sense modalities. This is possible because the movement-qualities of each component event are already in nonlocal linkage, just as the launching quality of colliding billiard balls or cars was. The dancing body and the storm are self-abstracting in the way Michotte describes: their movement-quality self-detaches from the sensuously regis- trable combination of objects involved. Thus all that is needed is a nonlo- cal linkage between nonlocal linkages: their mutual inclusion in a joint event. As we also saw earlier, what constitutes a mutual inclusion of this kind is the affective tonality enveloping the disparate movement-qualities, or vitality affects. It is the affective tonality that produces the resemblance between the events, by holding them together in itself. It makes the sin- gularity of the activation contours of the two distant events come generi- cally together in a ritual event. The job of the technique of existence of ritual is to set the conditions in place for an affective tonality to be pro- duced and, in appearing, to produce the singular-generic event of a dance and a storm ritually coming-together in nonsensous similarity.
The nonlocal linkage between nonlocal linkages that is at the heart of this operation was just analyzed in terms of thought and language. Ritual is a way of performing thought. It is a technique of existence for bringing forth virtual events through techniques involving bodily performance, in mutual inclusion with events of the other kinds. Events, for example, of the heavens, of a cosmological kind. Ritual resonates with virtual events, as the operation of language does. Ritual gestures forth virtual events from the horizon of thought. Language speaks or writes them. The techniques ritual employs to set the conditions for virtual events to appear involve language use of many kinds. But ritual’s ability to mobilize affective tonal- ity in order to nonsensuously link nonsensuous linkages to each other hangs specifically on the performative use of language—language as gesture. Nonverbal gesture, however, can do the trick just as well, if the conditions for set for it.8