(experience that is self-referencing, registering its own unfolding as its only content; as opposed to the exteroception of sensory experience registering impulses from the outside that are in principle outwardly referenceable to objects). The in-between of activation contours is directly kinesthetic. It consists in an immediate echoing of action in reenaction, in an in-between of movements. Action-reenaction is kinesthetic, and kinesthesia is proprio- ceptive. It references the relation of the phases of an unfolding movement to each other—its accelerations and decelerations, increases and decreases in intensity, starts and stops—as belonging to the same event. Propriocep- tion is not one sense mode among others. It is the mode of experience of the amodal as such. The whole concept of the activation contour is that the “same” contour is to be found across modes, in the rhythm of seeing, or touching, or hearing. Rhythm is amodal. It is the abstract shape of the event as it happens, across whatever modes it happens with. It is the immediate thinking-feeling of nonlocal linkage. Rhythm is the amodal in person.
Now that we have seen the extent to which the “sameness” of move- ment-qualities is a creative production, we can appreciate that propriocep- tion is natively inventive. It is the body’s in-born technique for the production of nonsensuous similarity. The body’s automatic abstraction method. It operates “spontaneously” under all “natural” conditions, as well as in the laboratory. If it didn’t, it is worth repeating, there would be no experience of events. There would be no experience of change or rela- tion. Proprioception is not only abstracting. It is self-abstracting: it is by nature recessive, always already slipping away behind the other sense modes to the nonconscious limit of experience, where sensuous experience rejoins the pure activity of thought (Massumi 2002, 58–61, 168, 179–188). All techniques of existence bringing forth virtual events work with pro- prioception and its privileged connection with thought.
According to Susanne Langer, ritual is a technique for bringing forth virtual events, nonsensuously yoking diverse events of the bodies and the heavens. Ritual produces a semblance of an event in which nothing pro- prioceptively appears—but is nevertheless seen. The ritual dancer “sees the world in which his body dances” (Langer 1953, 197). Ritual technique performs virtual events furthering vision beyond where it actually stops and behind where it continues, into other, cosmological, worlds that are really, virtually, nonsensuously felt to double the sensuous world. Ritual produces a perceptual feeling of seen cosmological spaces. Its gesturality is