aesthetic way, what it has produced remains a semblance of a truth con- cerning space and movement (see chapter 2).
The experience of space we feel when we view a painting, Langer emphasizes, is a real experience of space and the potential movements it affords. It’s just that the space is virtual. Visible form has been used as a local sign (James 1950, 155–165) of nonlocal linkages. The function of the local sign is catalytic. A sensuous form has activated the formation of a “created . . . virtual form” (Langer 1953, 172, 173). The canvas, pigment, and frame that are actually seen are the local signs hosting the semblant event.
Perspective painting is like ritual in that it produces an experience in vision of a spatialized virtual event. The virtual space of perspective paint- ing, in contrast to ritual space, is fundamentally this-worldly, projecting a geometric formalization of the empirical order. Think of landscape paint- ing. Through the device of the vanishing point, the perspective order producing the perceptual feeling in vision of depth is posited to continue out through the painting. The painting projects, beyond its frame, an extensive continuum that virtually rejoins the actual spatial order of the unpainted world within which its frame is nested. Perspective painting in this way posits its virtual event-space as as-good-as-actual—while in no way hiding the rigorous artifice necessary to produce this effect (though the salience of the event’s artificiality may later subside, through processes of habituation and conventionalization, if not through an ideological project of normalization).
A produced virtual event that mobilizes its power of the false to posit itself as as-good-as-actual is “representational.” The semblance of truth produced by representational techniques is a semblance of the empirically real, according to a definition of the empirical that equates it with the objective order. The aim to equal the empirically real foregrounds the element of produced resemblance—while disavowing it. The brush strokes through which a landscape is nonsensuously seen do not objectively resemble a pasture, any more than the word “storm” objectively resembles what happens in the sky, or a dancing body a downpour. The resem- blance—like all resemblances—is produced, by essentially dissimilar means. This is lost from view in representational art.
A representational technique of existence foregrounds the produced resemblance to particular effect in the kind of semblance it creates. It