foregrounds the resemblance in a way that suggests that it actually stands behind the painting producing it, authorizing it, and guaranteeing its truth-likeness. A perceptual feeling is produced that the seen resemblance is the founding principle of the semblance. This glosses over the differen- tial nature of the attunement between senses, between the sensuous and the nonsensuous, and between spatiality and movement potential, upon which the semblance’s appearance depends. The principle of resemblance privileges the sensuous forms, divorced from this background of differen- tial attunement. The resemblance is felt to be entirely between sensuous forms. The virtually occurrent, nonsensuous qualitative-relational order is outshone by a resemblance whose production could not have occurred without it.
The nonsensuous qualitative-relational order is replaced by a formal order: the geometric order of perspective. The geometric order exhibits itself in the perceptual event performed by the painting. It is also used to formalize techniques for the construction of perspectival paintings. The geometric order comes before as technique, as well as being exhibited with it. Coming before and with, it appropriates the event of the painting to itself. The geometric order is felt. It is a lived abstraction. But it is felt- not to be an event. It is posited by the experience as an a priori: an eternally preexisting, abstract frame; a transcendent abstraction  rather than an integrally lived abstraction. It  is  this  transcendent  abstraction that purports to be foundational, and its purporting to be foundational authorizes and guarantees the produced resemblance. This makes the resemblance appear not only necessary but “natural.” The resemblance is made to be reflective of an eternal, necessary, natural order. That order arrogates the abstraction of the painting to itself. The lived abstraction of the qualitative-relational order of nonsensuous similarity, its ever-occur- rent contingency and spontaneity, is lost in the reflected glare. The resem- blance is now guaranteed to be between sensuous forms. The resemblance between natural forms is authorized to be a “natural” reflection of a necessary transcendent order. Since the eternal order of transcendent abstraction is posited as the principle behind the resemblance, the resem- blance stands in its reflection as in principle unproduced. Perspective in representational painting produces a semblance of unproduced resem- blance exhibiting itself as the natural order of sensuous objects: the objec- tive order of sensuous forms.