to appear in vision, that nonsensuous similarity can be made to perform itself through sensuous form, only if the technique departs from what has come to be experienced as direct imitation. The departure, more or less subtle, is from techniques reenforcing the habitual, conventional, or nor- malized experience of the artifact’s semblance-of-not-being-a-semblance. The departure from the representationally reigning techniques creates a crack in the window through which the artifact’s powers of false show, in perceptual feeling.
Take portraiture. Paul Valéry, discussing Degas’s portrait drawing prac- tice, writes that “the peculiar alteration that an artist’s manner of executing
. . . makes the exact representation suffer” exerts a “power of transposition” altering the “manner of seeing” incumbent in the drawing. The drawing’s manner of seeing “significantly extends itself to include: manner of being, being able, knowing, wanting” (Valéry 2003b, 206–207). In a word: it extends itself into a form-of-life. The “drawing is not the form,” if by that is meant a visibly sensuous form (Valéry 2003b, 205). The form-of-life departs from the drawing in that sense of form.
When a human form is taken as a point of departure, the drawing is the appearing of a complex form of life: a multiplicity of vitality affects are mutually included in an event of vision, enveloped in the affective tonality of the sight of the drawing, and appearing virtually to “reconsti- tute someone” (Valéry 2003ba, 207). The more exact the representation, the more “detestable” the drawing (Valéry 2003cb, 81). The more intense the perceptual feeling of form-of-life, the more successful the drawing. And paradoxically, the more intense the perceptual feeling, the more impersonal the drawing becomes (“someone”). The reconstitution is not of a particular “someone,” since the drawing has taken great pains to depart from any such focus on representing. The “peculiar alteration” the drawing suffers makes it commit a “personal error” (Valéry 2003ba, 207; emphasis in the original). It makes an art that is purportedly of the personal, creatively “err” in that apparent vocation. It makes a self-respecting semblance of it again.
In chapter 3, the drawing of a peculiar alteration which exerts a power of transposition that creatively extends a manner of seeing into a form-of- life, understood as a complex manner of being/being able/knowing/ wanting appearing eventfully together in virtual mutual inclusion, was termed a diagram (Deleuze 2004b, 81–90). The diagram was considered a