technique of existence. Conversely, every technique of existence can be considered a diagram. Valéry treats Degas’s drawing as a diagram. Deleuze corroborates Valéry’s main point: “the suprasensible diagram is not to be confused with the audio-visual archive” (Deleuze 1988a, 84, translation modified). It “doubles” the order of sensuous forms and their history with a “becoming of forces” (manners of being/being capable/knowing/wanting) (Deleuze 1988a, 85; translation modified). Semblance and diagram-as-tech- nique-of-existence go doubly, becoming together.
Every vitality affect is a relational form-of-life. Left to their own devices, they are partial: they self-detach from the objects-in-combination impli- cated in the event. The combination of objects is only a part of what is objectively present since the encounter occurs against a background of other combinations whose own dynamic form is not positively doubled by the nonsensuous trace created. The dynamic form of the encounter stands out from them, in semblance. The partiality of the semblance’s standing out is self-selective: spontaneous, autonomous.
“Realistic” portrait drawings that fail to “err personally” bind a complex of vitality affects together into the semblance of a whole, in disrespect of their partiality and the autonomous self-selecting of their standing-out. The sensuous form from which the semblance of the whole detaches is the tip of a nonsensuous iceberg. An unseen depth of personality is perceptu- ally felt “behind” the semblance. This suggested depth of personality replaces the actual background of the experiential event of the drawing. Once again, resemblance appears as a founding principle. This time, it is the resemblance of the partial view of the person presented by the drawing to the unseen whole: a self-resemblance. The autonomous partiality of vitality affect is subordinated to a suggested whole whose showing sensu- ous tip is seen as its dependent part. The part seen is nonsensuously owned. Its selectivity is wholly integrated.
The principle of resemblance in this case—the self-resemblance of the dependent part to the owning whole—is authorized and guaranteed by no objective order. There is indeed an order, and it is again felt to be transcen- dent. But now it is a subjective order. The portrait is a “window” on the soul. The perceptually felt content of the portrait is an inner landscape where the truth of the soul resides. The picture is of self-transcendence, the truth of personal soulfulness. The drawing purports to truly harbor content.  The  frame  of  the  drawing  contains  an  inner  landscape  of