unplumbable depth. Its sensuous closure opens onto a whole subjective world. The drawing is as-good-as subjectively real. The semblance that effectively appears once again purports not to be one. Rather than assum- ing its status of nonsensuous similarity tuned to real differentials, it sub- ordinates itself to a subjective principle of self-identity. Instead of making felt its participation in a double existence between sensuous form and the nonsensuous universe of a qualitative-relational order whose elements are autonomous and contribute their spontaneity to it, the semblance settles for the redundancy of self-resemblance. Instead of living up to the power of the false, it settles for a “the” truth.
Returning representation fully to the status of the semblance, freed of its pretense to the truth, means peculiarly departing from the representa- tion in such a way as to reimpart an impersonal force of vitality to what otherwise, “realistically” speaking, would appear to be personal. Valéry’s “someone” is Deleuze’s “fourth person singular” (Deleuze 1990, 141). Not some particular person but a form of life “in person”—directly perceptually felt in all its abstract intensity, qualitatively-relationally more-than objec- tively real. Not inner being: “extra-being” (Deleuze 1990, 7). The drawing has yielded from sensuous form an event of extra-being. Art of this kind is best called “figural,” to distinguish it from the representational (“figura- tive”) art from which it departs (Deleuze 2004b, 10–13, 31–38; Manning 2009b, 170–183).
Departing from representation means returning the semblance to the event of its native abstractness: the spontaneous, impersonal force of thinking-feeling that comes amodally to vision through the cracks in the artifact’s sensuous form. The feeling of human depth that conventionally accompanies a rendering of a human figure of the kind that aspires to representational “exactitude” is brushed away. The “peculiar alteration” of line that returns the semblance to itself is unabashedly, wholly and only, technically, on the surface of the paper or canvas. The semblance specula- tively-pragmatically detaches itself from this surface, peculiarly, singularly, directly for the abstract seeing. “Everything now returns to the surface,” self-abstracting (Deleuze 1990, 7). The semblance makes no pretense of making another world appear, or of being authorized or guaranteed by a depth of order objectively underlying this world, or again of reflecting a subjective depth of personal experience. Returning to the surface,  the better to detach from it, the event of the figural is ambivalent toward its