own sensuous content. It de-limits the surface, without giving it the sem- blance of depth that would make it a virtual space for the content to be abstractly contained in.
The alteration that returns drawing to semblance is, simply, a line (Valéry 2003c, 78). The peculiarity of the actually drawn sensuous line is doubled by a perceptually felt abstract line. Their in-between is constitutive of the semblance. Between them, they gesture to a style of being and becom- ing, in the fourth-person singular: a dynamic form-of-life “in person”; impersonal force of vitality detaching itself from someones in particular to affirm its own qualitative-relational consistency; “a” life (Deleuze 2007, 388–393; Manning, forthcoming b; on style, Valéry 2003c, 81). If the drawing is actually of someone, if it was made from a live model, it is more precise to say that the actual person from which the semblance has detached belongs to the impersonal force of vitality this event brings to surface expression, than it is to say that the semblance belongs to the actual person as his or her true resemblance. The likeness of the actual person is but the host of the semblance’s qualitative-relational event: its local sign. Any person to which the drawing corresponds is more possessed by it than possessing of it. Figural drawing returns a quasi-magical power of gesture to representational art. It makes-felt personification as a force of life in itself, in excess of any given instant or instance of its actual taking sensuous form. It makes appear what Benjamin would call the “aura” of a person. Benjamin defines aura as “the unique apparition of a distance, however near it may be.” In the vocabulary of this essay, Benjamin’s “aura” is the singular and immediate perceptual feeling of a nonlocal linkage (Benjamin 2003, 255).
This, oddly, allies drawing to ritual. Ritual, as a technique of existence, reaches to the sky in order to bring to cosmological expression magical powers of gesture. Figural art as a diagrammatic technique of existence departs from representation to bring stylistic expression to quasi-magical powers of gesture. Rather than realistically evoking a transcendent feeling of a certain someone’s depth of person, it peculiarly, stylistically invokes the directly perceptually-felt excess of a self-detaching surface-force of personification immanent to “someone.” As with ritual, the creation of this effect requires rigorous technique performed under prepared and pro- pitious conditions. The conditions for the drawing’s success are also socio- cultural: the suggestiveness of portraiture is no less an invoked relational