It can do this only if actions are “broken up” (Cunningham 1968, 91). This means disarticulating the objective interlinkages that form between actions following actual world-lines, binding them into recognizable path- ways with pre-understood meaning. It also means “emptying” movement of any symbolic evocations or metaphorical associations that might build upon this pre-understanding (Gil 2002, 121–122). Cunningham’s uncom- promising de-Grahaming of dance excludes any “meaning” that is not “betrayed immediately by the action” (Cunningham 1968, 90). Dance thus actively recurs to the immediate thinking-feeling of bodily gesture. With- drawn from any in-built relation to extra-dance reality, it recurs to its own event. To what it can do best, and better than any other technique of existence: give immediate meaning to bodily gesture, in and of itself. But what “meaning” can pure bodily movement have once it is “broken” and “emptied? Only a creative semblance of meaning—a speculative meaning of a singularly dancerly kind.
Valéry anticipates the Cunninghamian transition to contemporary dance. “Most of our voluntary movements,” he writes, “have as their end an exterior action: it is a question of reaching a place or an object, or of modifying some perception or sensation at a determinate point. . . . Once the goal is reached, once the affair terminates, our movement, which was in a certain way inscribed in the relation of our body to the object and our intention, ceases. The movement’s determination contains its extermina- tion; it cannot be conceived or executed without the presence and collabo- ration of the idea of the event terminating it” (Valéry 2003a, 27). “There are other movements,” he continues, “whose evolution no localized object excites or determines, can cause or conclude. No thing which, rejoined, brings resolution to these acts.” Movements of this kind have “dissipation itself for its object.” Such movements are “an end in themselves.” Since this is an “end” without conclusion, all of this amounts to creating a perpetually “nascent state” as an end in itself (28). Lacking an immanent principle to terminate or finally determine its movements, the movements “must mul- tiply” until some “’indifferent circumstance” intervenes from without to dissipate them: “fatigue, or convention.” Even this intervention from without brings no conclusion. The movement returns to the end it carries in itself: its nascent state. Paradoxically, when dance movement takes dissipation for its only external object, it becomes self-moving, ever returning itself to a nascent state. It becomes self-reenergizing. This “modifies our feeling of