energy” (28). What it means to feel bodily energy changes: it is now imme- diately thought-felt, in perpetual nascency, unmediated by any predeter- mined idea of finality. This change, this gestural opening to an experience of movement unlimited, is the semblance of meaning produced by dance as pure movement, or what Gil calls “total movement” (Gil 2001).
When gesture is deprived in this way of its terminus, its pragmatic truth potential is suspended. This makes it a purely speculative activity. Any determinate relation to an objective order or a subjective realm of personal intention that may be habitually or conventionally “inscribed” in it is ex- inscribed. The movement relates only to its own self-energizing event. The unlimited recurring of dance to its own event is just that: an eternal recur- rence. When gesture’s determination is no sooner its extermination, making it as self-dissipating as it is self-energizing, movement enters a state of perpetual turnover onto its own rebeginning. Gesture barely just made folds over into gesture already in the making, in continuous variation. Movement “doubles back on itself” (Gil 2002, 123). Each doubling back is both an actual transition between actual movements and a form of transi- tion. The form of transition belongs to no one movement. It comes between, with its own qualitative-relational feel. It is a nonlocal linkage. Vitality affect. The experience of the dance is of the nonlocal linkages, not the individual movements taking separately or even in aggregate. The order of the dance as such is the order of the nonlocal linkages’ turning over into each other, their relational qualities accumulating in a “Universe of Dance” (Valéry 2003a, 31) spontaneously detaching from the actual surface of the body, doubling its actual movements. This is the universe in which bodily vitality affects are kinesthetically thought-felt to merge and diverge, repeat and vary, fold in and out of each other in their own manner, sui generis, exonerated from both the objective constraints of world-line formation and subjective pre-understandings of their human symbolic significance or metaphorical associations.
Asked to define the body, William Forsythe answers: “a body is that which folds” (Forsythe 2008; Manning 2009a). A body is that which doubles back on itself in a perpetual turnover of gestures, from which a universe of bodily forms of transition self-detach, in live performance, to compose a sui generis order that nonsensuously “diagrams” the body’s potential for infinitely renewed and varied movement. Performed event of the body’s vital self-abstraction.