Deleuze says of the diagram that it is “not a place, but rather a ‘non- place’: a place only of changes” (1988a, 85). The universe of dance in which the event of the body’s self-abstraction nonsensuously occurs is not a “space.”12 It is a non-place, made only of forms of gestural change, bodily forms of transition, in a state of perpetual nascency. Each actual movement from which the dance self-detaches no sooner arises than it returns to the continually repeated variation from which it came. Each actual move- ment’s orientation is to repeated change, doubled by an accompanying alteration in the self-detaching nonsensuous order of nonlocal linkages. These qualitative-relational “movements which are their own ends” have “no direction in space” (Valéry 2003a, 28). They self-abstract from the space of actual bodily movement. Not into another space of the body doubling its actual world with another (as was the case with ritual dance), but rather into “Time” (Valéry 2003a, 31). The space of contemporary dance is a temporal realm of “acts” (31) whose incessant dissipation and rearising makes nonsensuously felt energetic bodily change, in a perpetu- ally nascent state “emptied” of both human meaning and pragmatic poten- tial for termination.13 Dance makes directly perceptually-felt time of the body expressing its potential for change.
The dance is the conversion of the body’s movement in space into the Time of its alteration: its speculative translation into a universe of pure bodily becoming. The life of the body unlimited, in a pure experience of its becoming. Semblance of life. Embodied life: pure expression of the body’s aliveness. Animateness as such.
The semblance of meaning produced by the dance is a direct, perceptu- ally felt experience of the body’s power of animate becoming. To dance is a technique of existence for performing a felt “consciousness of life”: a direct “sense of vital power” experienced in a “play of ‘felt energies’” (thought-felt-movement energies) that is as “different from any system of physical forces” (Langer 1953, 175) as space is from time. What is per- formed are “dance forces, virtual powers” (176). “The dancer’s actual ges- tures are used to create a semblance of self-expression, and are thereby transformed into virtual spontaneous movement, or virtual gesture” (180). Semblance of self-expression: pure impersonal expression of bodily power, in nonsensuous excess over the body. “Superabundance of power” (Valéry 2003c, 31). Body unlimited. Abstract energy of embodied life unrestrained by content (Langer 1953, 174). The life amodal.