relational manner in which it eventfully effects a fusional mutual inclusion of a heterogeneity of factors in a signature species of semblance. It is defined by the manner of the event of lived abstraction it performs. As suggested in chapter 2, an evaluation of a technique’s manner of event can replace the notion of the “medium.”
The fusional practice of making extra-dance elements become imma- nent to the dance is best seen in the work of choreographers like William Forsythe, whose creative practice embraces a wide diversity of composi- tional elements. Cunningham, for his part, took great pains to maintain a radical disjunction between dance and music, insistently holding them in a relation of “nonrelation” (Gil 2002, 118). Relations-of-nonrelation, however, in no way exclude fusion. In fact, when the fusion does occur, it can be all the more striking. The audiovisual fusion in cinema discussed in chapter 2 in relation to the work of Michel Chion arises from a disjunc- tion between sound and vision. To use the classic example, a cut may go directly from a swinging arm to a reeling body, skipping over the blow. The visuals of the blow are replaced by the sound of fist hitting jowl. Nev- ertheless, most spectators will report having seen the blow. The blow was really perceptually felt in vision, in what Chion calls a “synchretic” fusion of sound and sight occurring amodally across the disjunction between visual segments, and between them and the sound track. The effect is unitary (a blow). But the unity of effect is entirely owing to the experiential differential that is its compositional principle. The compositional tech- nique employed was nondecomposably audiovisual. It occurred in the amodal between of hearing and seeing. It could not have occurred had sound and sight not come-together just so, in just this disjunctive way (timing is everything; technique is everything). Still, the resulting strike- effect is thought-felt in the affective tonality of vision (in a “withness” of the eyes; Whitehead 1978, 64).
Cunningham’s insistence on the “autonomy” of the dance and  the music cannot exclude this kind of synchretic fusion, only make it rarer by contriving it to occur only “by chance.” Any fusion effects occurring will be thought-felt in the affective tonality of danced gesture, just as in the audiovisual example the synchresis was felt in the affective tonality of vision. The perceptual feeling of the cinematic strike is contrived in such a way that the disjunction is not experienced as such. The experiential differential is contrived to operate nonconsciously. The composition of the relational  field  of  the  fusion-effect’s  emergence  disappears  behind  the