drama of its effect. If we apply this to Cunningham’s technique of holding music and dance in extreme disjunction, it is not necessary to see it as a refusal of dance fusion and of the making-immanent to dance of music. Instead, it can be seen as a practice for bringing an awareness of the dis- junctive operation of experiential fusion to the surface of dance, making consciously felt the fact that the compositional principle of this technique of existence, like all techniques of existence, is always differential.15 There is always disjunction. No technique of existence can so purify its field as to make it homogeneous: simply non-relational. All techniques of exis- tence operate through relations-of-nonrelation. Experiential fusion-effects. Mutual inclusion of a heterogeneity of factors becoming, singular-generi- cally, forces of pure expression.
“Pure” does not mean homogeneous or simply nonrelational. “Pure” means: having the compositional power to mutually include; to bring dif- ferentials of experience together across their disjunction, to unitary expe- riential effect; to effectively convert heterogeneous outside factors into immanent forces of singular-generic expression.
It was the force of the blow that was audiovisually perceptually-felt in vision, as the cinematic event. The sound occurred with synchretized cin- ematic force. “Pure” dance likewise converts extra-dance factors into dance forces. This is done in different manners by different choreographic prac- tices, in more or less rarefied ways, with or without this process becoming conscious in the usual sense (it is always thought-felt as the quality of the dance). Extra-dance factors become-dance, as dance becomes what it does, in a next eventful expression of how it makes itself felt for what it can do most purely.
“Pure” as applied to “expression” means: effectively fusional. It means: that the compositional “extra” of heterogeneous elements that technically enter-in is felt unitarily in the dynamic form of an immanent force issuing as an event, in experiential excess over both the sensuous forms involved and their sense modalities. Pure expression points to no content other than this event: its own event. Fusion is another word for nonlocal linkage. Effect is another word for nonsensuous similarity. Expression is another way of saying translation of world-lines into a changing qualitative-rela- tional order doubling the objective order.
The observation that the necessarily differential principle of composi- tion  involved  in  every  technique  of  existence—including  the  senses