“Aliveness”: not the same as “live.” Aliveness is the relational quality of life. It is a semblance: a nonsensuous similarity. Like all nonsensuous simi- larity, it self-detaches from the objective combinations of things that go into a live performance, doubling them with an order of lived abstraction. A priori, there is no reason to believe that a dance or music recording de- animates the expressive event. Since the aliveness of the performance detaches itself from the performance even as it happens, there is no reason it cannot survive a second remove. What is certain is that it cannot survive a second remove—or even a repeat live performance—unchanged.
This is because the conditions of production or reproduction of an event, in all their singularity and genericness, are just as active as “extra” ingredi- ents in the expression as any other factors. Such contextual factors as the unique acoustics, and even the mood of the listener or the collective “feel” of the audience, are as fusionally ingredient to the quality of experience of a piece of music in a given iteration as is the plucking of strings. Given the kinesthetic-proprioceptive tenor of musical hearing, the iPod’s launching of the experience of music into everyday movement can be expected to become powerfully immanent to how the technique of existence of music can make itself felt, and what expressively it can do. Technologies in the narrow sense—architectural acoustics, recording, computerization, minia- turization—do not denature techniques of existence. They propagate, dis- seminate, and vary their events. They impel techniques of existence into evolutions, and speciations. Understood from this angle, technologies are “machinic phylums” forming “technological lineages”—world-lines of technological movement (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 404–415).
The formation of technological lineages is not extraneous to techniques of existence. It does not weaken or degrade their powers of expression. The  vicissitudes  of  technology  are  immanent  to  the  continuing  self-