constitution of techniques of existence. Technological lineages distribute in chronological time and extensive space the natural movement of tech- niques of existence: expressive events’ abstract intensity, coming to vary. Self-differing, as they always do, in any event. Technologies boost the natural dynamic of self-differing inherent to experiential dynamics. They prolong the spontaneous power incumbent in experiential events of self- detachment, toward continuing variation.
It is a commonplace of media theory to say that technologies prolong the senses. This is the least of it. The senses are in any event self-prolong- ing. They only ever work to detach from their objective (organic) function- ing events of lived abstraction that take them places they cannot go (in thought, in language). The senses themselves are technologies of lived abstraction, doing hard fusional labor every microsecond of every day, between every living breath. Technologies are not “prostheses of the body.” The senses are already that. Technologies are abstract-event multipliers and disseminators. They are prostheses of the life of abstraction. Aliveness engines.
The question then is not whether recorded music is better or worse in lived quality than live music, or whether a dance on video is no dance at all. Live music and recorded music are equally performative, if differently alive. The question is how they differ, according to the vital circumstances. How integrally are the contextual conditions fusionally enveloped in the event? To how unitary an effect? Synchreting from what generative dif- ferentials? With what variation of relational quality? How disjunctively? How “purely” (to what degree of effective abstraction)? With what regard to content? Arved Ashby (2010) is right to insist that “absolute music” and “mechanical reproduction” are not opponent concepts but must be commaed together: Absolute Music, Mechanical Reproduction. The same must be said for every technique of existence with respect to the expressive purity or “absoluteness” of its event and that event’s evolutionary variation along the world-lines of technology.