nonlocal linkage. A lived abstraction: an occurrent self-abstraction from the combination of objective ingredients from which it lifts off (the event’s local signs). What the lived abstraction expresses is the event of its own appearance. It is one with its own abstractive manner of appearing. It is the abstraction of its appearance: a being of abstraction, in a becoming of the world.
But what of the bringing-into-combination of the diversity of creative factors considered in its own right? The elements have to come together just so, in just this disjunctive way, for the effect to lift off. The timing has to be right. The elements have to be brought into just the right proximity, in just the right way so that they detonate into a self-detaching experiential event. Technique is everything. In fact, the technicity of a technique of existence resides in how this is done: how the conditions for the event come together. The appearance of the effect is a spontaneous experiential com- bustion event. But the setting-in of the conditions is prepared. Meticulously prepared.
The preparation may be classifiable as “naturally” occurring (on physi- cal, chemical, biological, geological, and meteorological strata, to name a few). But when they are “human” or “cultural” they are always also natural. There is no event of human experience without a body with senses to amodally combine. There are no bodily senses in flights of dynamic inter- play without a ground to stand on. There are no technological extensions of the body’s life of abstraction in the absence of creative differentials of the electromagnetic and metallurgical kind, among themselves and between their respective strata and others. The conditions for events of expression presuppose a nature-culture continuum from which the dif- ferential elements brought disjunctively into play are selectively drawn, to just this effect for each event.
If the lift-off of the experiential effect is a synchresis, the coming-into proximity in the manner propitious for this event is a concrescence (White- head 1978, 21, 22 and passim).16 Synchresis and concrescence are not in opposition or contradiction. They are coincident aspects of the same dynamic: two poles of the process of experience, inseparably in each other’s embrace. The sensuous and the nonsensuous, the abstract and the con- crete, the objective world and the  qualitative-relational  universe,  are two sides of the same event. The  self-abstraction of an experience is co-occurrent  with  the  concrescence  of  its  ingredient  elements.  The