self-abstraction of experience is the speculative side, the concrescence the pragmatic side. A technique of existence attends meticulously to the second, in the flighty interests of the first’s foretracing.
The concept of causality as it is usually employed is insufficient to account for the creative activity of techniques of existence. Causes are typically conceived to act locally, in part-to-part interaction. The specula- tive-pragmatic production of an experiential effect occurs through nonlo- cal linkage in the relational in-between of the parts involved. The effect is holistic. Not in the sense that it is a whole composed of its objective parts. A whole composed of parts is but a bigger part of a larger objective whole. An experiential  effect is  a whole apart:  a self-detaching  event having wholly and only its own dynamic unity. The event precisely expresses the coming-together of the parts, not the parts themselves or their structure.
An event of lived abstraction is strictly speaking uncaused. Its taking- effect is spontaneous: experiential self-combustion. It is uncaused, but highly conditioned: wholly dependent on the coming-together of its ingre- dient factors, just so. The conditioning always includes a pragmatics of chance. There is always the odd detail that might unexpectedly assert itself and destroy the effect. Or positively inflect it. A technique of existence must either embrace chance, converting the self-assertion of the odd detail into a positive factor in its taking-effect. Or it must steel itself against intrusions of chance. A technique of existence is always actively condition- ing of its events. The conditioning crucially involves the setting into place of enabling constraints to filter and inflect chance contributions (Manning and Massumi, forthcoming b). The pragmatic side of the speculative- pragmatic process consists more in selecting for chance inflections than causing in the usual sense. Selecting chance inflections effects a modulation, rather than implementing a causation. The senses are the in-born modula- tory technologies of the animal body. They do not reflect what is outside the organism. They inflect what takes off from it, carrying its animate life into the anorganic realm of lived abstraction, where all linkage is nonlocal and activity is in effect foretraced (on anorganic life, Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 499; Deleuze 2004b, 45–47).
Filter as a technique of existence may, chance always enters in, to one degree or another. There is always inflection. Modulation is the rule. The necessary incoming of  chance toward  the outcome of  the experiential event  gives  newness  to  every  event.  It  makes  every  occurrence  the