The consequence of this is that the “purity” of a technique of existence’s expression is a fragile achievement. In fact, the emptying of the event of expression of all content other than its own occurrence is a limit of process toward which the world’s creative advance ever tends, never reaching. The doubling of every lived abstraction by a sensuous encounter means that there are always remainders of embodied animateness and objective order that are nonsensuously doubled—but not erased. Emptying is not erasing. It is taking-off-from. Breaking up is not sweeping away. It is breaking-away- from. The sensuous remainders are buds of content’s regrowth: hints of symbolic meaning; provocations for metaphorical association. It is a very good thing they are there, for they are also local signposts for a reuptake of the event in pragmatic ambulation: buds also for an advancement of the objective order. Without the dogging of lived abstraction by sensuous remainder, the world would be lost in its own speculation. The perpetual nascency to which pure expression returns the event would fall on fallow time. It would churn infertile. It is the sensuous remainder of the event of expression that calls the self-detaching universe of lived abstraction back to the walkways of the world.
The buds of content are no less incessantly necessary than they are a constant challenge to any practice aspiring to take a technique of existence to the expressive limit of what it can do. They are constraints enabling of what a practice effectively does, approaching the limit of its expression. And approaching the expressive limit is what process never ceases to do. The limit of lived abstraction is the universal attractor of experience. It is no less than the ever-renascent terminus of the world: the perpetual point of departure for its renewal. Every technique of existence has an expressive appetite for pushing nonsensuous similarity as far as it can go, carrying it to its highest degree of abstractive intensity, making it as absolutely felt as it can experienceably be. Pushing the limit of lived abstraction is the uni- versal “lure for feeling”: appetition (Whitehead 1978, 184–185). Lure of extra-being. Lure for becoming.17
That is the necessity (of novelty). To understand the challenge, think of contemporary dance again. To dance the dance is to extract animate- ness—pure-movement qualities—from the actual movements of the body. But the body remains, shadowing the nonsensuous dance-form, in heavy contrast to its tendency to lift-off. One of the shadows the body casts is its physical frailty: its inevitable pull to the ground, counter to the push