to the limit. At the counter-limit : mortality. Any intense experience of the animateness of the body contains this contrasting pull in suggestive poten- tial. Appetitive lift to abstraction / gravitational fall-back. It takes very little for the fall-back position to regain ground. Conventional language, with its stockpile of at-the-ready symbolic and metaphorical associations, easily provides the ballast. Content redux. How many reviews of contemporary dance have been written that ponderously a reveal a “theme” of death? Or sex and love, romantic ecstasy, and the wrench of jealousy? For the human body is as sexed as it is mortal.
Absolute music, for its part, courts the return of content by virtue of its very abstractive success. Its expressive detachment of animateness from the local sign of the sexed-mortal body yields what conventionally (ste- reotypically) speaking is avidly construed as soulfulness. How many music commentaries extol the grandioseness of its “spiritual” meaning? Wax lyrical on its revelation of human depth of soul? Pin its animateness-afloat for an evocation of the incorporeal life everlasting? Eagerly take its pure time of alteration for a glimpse of unchanging eternity?
For figural art, it is the narrative powers of language that lie in wait, content-ready. Imagine a story that the likeness seems to suggest—and the semblance recontains itself. Where once it struck impersonally as a force of personification, it now evokes a striking force of personality, its de- limitation  undone.
The turnoff onto the associative detours of conventionalized discourse through which content tends to return is already in bud in the direct experience of the expressive event. Crucially, there are already beginnings of a translation of the affective dimension of the event, as it happens, into emotion. As was discussed earlier, a multiplicity of singular vitality affects are enveloped in the affective tonality of the event. The affective tonality is the performance envelope of the event. It falls into a certain generic region of expression, depending on the technique of existence. The singu- larity of the vitality affects modulate the generic tonality of each event, giving it a singular-generic feel, but the modulation is contrived to stay within the parameters of the event-envelope. Positively, this means that the vitality affects resonate in the event, ensuring a certain intensity. At the same time, it prepares the way for their conversion of vitality affects into “categorical affects”: identifiable, generally recognizable, narratively