(or otherwise) codable, symbolically evocative, metaphorically redolent human  emotions.
Human emotion is the royal road to the recontainment of lived abstrac- tion. It consists in the translation of the intensity of vitality affects’ coming singularly together in the same event into recountable, codable, or formal- izable content. It is precisely the overabundance of the vitality affects that opens the way for this. Their multiplicity is mutually included in an overall feel. Their singularities merge into a generic thinking-feeling of the event. At that level, their variety is only vaguely sensed. It is this indistinct per- ceptual feeling of a superabundance of lived intensity that is translated into emotion. From the angle of an overcoding or formalizing technique of existence conveyed by conventional language use, the resonance of the enveloped vitality affects comes across as an ambiguity of reference or meaning. The ambiguity then has to be processed. It can be reduced by interpretation to one “true” meaning. Or it can be relayed into concentric circles of symbolic or metaphorical plurivocity. From there it can spiral, centripetally into a dramatic center of signifiance, or centrifugally out of orbit into flights of more and more evocative fancy. Any of these proce- dures can be narrativized in one way or another, structurally coded accord- ing to one version or another of what constitutes a structure, or procedurally formalized to one degree or another.
Whichever path is taken, the point of conversion is the transformation of vitality affect into emotion. The conversion into emotion may be explic- itly noted, thereby becoming the content itself. Or it may be transitioned- through on the road to content otherwise construed. The resonant tenor of the expressive event is doubled by what Barthes called a “supplementary message” to its sheer occurrence. The event passes from pure “uncoded” liveness (mechanically reproduced or not) to coded “message” (Barthes 1977, 19, cited in Ashby 2010, 234). It becomes communicable. The event ceases to be expressive on its own singular-generic account, to enter the general category of “communication”—a super-genre as envelopingly vague and indistinct as it is wont to take life’s intensities to be. No general category understands the first thing about affect. They are always by nature emotion-ready, because they are always ready-made for content. They have an in-bred appetite for content. They maw for it. That’s what they do. They  are  voracious  techniques  of  containment.  “Common  sense”  is