a number of image suggestions in its dynamic unfolding. This made the embrace of imagery “non-specific,” and as a result of that “as stymieing as it is evocative” (232). The composition retains its properly musical force of expression, so powerfully enveloping the imagistic elements that the virtual visualization is converted into an immanent music-force without remainder. This becoming-immanent to the music of the imagery, accord- ing to Mahler, was so complete that it could take the place of actual vision. On a walk in the mountains, Mahler tells his companion: “‘No need to look—I have already composed all of that away’ ” (222). What looking can do is now best heard in the music. Sightseeing dismissed with a blink of the ears. Mountains and mountains of sound.
This is an example of a compositional technique for out-treating sources for the  adventitious or  parasitic growth of  content affecting music  by taking in a bud of content of a favored kind. The selected bud is so tightly embraced, so excessively included, that it comes vividly alive for the tech- nique of existence adopting it. It becomes-immanent to the expressive force of the event. The intensity of that inclusion edges out all rival con- tent-readiness. This strategy is that of composing-away. Mahler invented a creative strategy for composing-away, and lived it out in an exclusive dedi- cation to the potential intensities of one genre of expressive technique of existence, that of the symphonic music of his time.
In general, composing-away involves taking a particular technique of existence to its highest degree of abstractive intensity, making it as abso- lutely felt as it can experienceably be, given the conditions (individual, social, culture, economic, technological). There are always buds of content that sprout from within. Techniques for composing-away must negotiate these shoots in one manner or another. Mahler’s technique of encouraging a certain modality of content growth, while simultaneously stymieing it by rendering it excessively non-specific, is a way of negotiating the problem of the eternal return of content by selectively embracing a certain order of content-readiness from the start, and then ensuring that it is not an extra- element but rather an element of an excess of immanence. When attempts are made to compose-away all trace of content-readiness from the get go, the growth returns at some point later in the process, often with a ven- geance. The return may well take the form of an insurgency of another modality of experience bursting forth from within at the very moment the process of expression reaches its highest intensity and achieves the purest