in such a way that it immanently energized its own act. It would then be a “nonobject” (81): purely its own self-occurring event.
Suspending conventions, filtering out articulate readings, discovering what actively contributes to the self-occurring of an event of experiential intensity, this is nothing if not painstaking. The artist’s spontaneity is in not enough (hence Irwin’s irritation with abstract expressionism, 41–51). It’s all about technique. To make a pure act of art, it is necessary to “control every physical aspect of the work’s circumstances” (77). This is because the spontaneity must be transferred to the artwork. Complete control of the objec- tive conditions is necessary so that the artwork becomes the subject of its own pure act. This accords with Whitehead’s vocabulary, in which the dynamic form of an event is called its “subjective form.” Whitehead speaks of an occasion’s subjective form as the “how” of feeling, its “quality of feeling”: the way in which the event absolutely requires that its objective conditions be just so—but refuses to be limited to them or reduced to them. The feeling-quality is “how” the event “clothes itself in its self-definition,” over and above its objective conditions (Whitehead 1978, 85–86). How it wraps itself in its own experiential quality, to take flight from its objective conditions. The event’s act of self-occurring definition is as much a product of its appetitive “aim at further integration” (fusion) in a nonsensuous intensity of effect (culminating attainment of nonobjecthood) as it is about technique (19).19
Irwin set about the task of getting the conditions just right for his work to take flight in its own purely occurrent subjective form. Twenty years of “investigations” followed, during which time “the outside world progres- sively receded” (70). Composing-away. Irwin carried his work through a “succession of reductions” leading “all the way to a ground zero” (81). Ground zero was a detonation site. Or more precisely, the supplanting of the visual space of the painting with a self-combusting visual energy that bursts from the frame. “A good painting has a gathering, an interactive build-up in it” so that the effect  just  “jumps  off  the  goddam  wall  at you. They just, bam!” (60). A “pure energy” is released through vision by the way in which the few  remaining  included  elements  reciprocally “act on each other” so as to exponentially “multiply” their individual abilities to the explosive point that they self-release into a single, dynamic, fusion-effect.