The produced effect is a “floating feeling” (81). Your eye “ends up sus- pended in midair, midspace, or midstride” (76). This abstraction-effect is “not abstractable” itself (76). It resides in its own occurrence. It cannot be applied to something else, or taken elsewhere. It is right where it is, “mid”- life. It is its own “unmediated presence” (87). Nothing more—or less—than a peculiar manner of vision suspended intensely in its own activity. Vision’s “self-possession divulging itself” (104) in a playing-out of a tension between its genetic elements. Divulging itself as “a quality, an energy” perceptually felt to self-move, “emerging” from the surface of the painting only to “dis- solve itself . . . in a kind of entropic dissipation” (91) The rise and fall of quivering vision caught in a state of self-agitating nascency.
“Some time will pass” (91). It takes time for the effect to build up and self-combust. The fusion-effect detaches from the surface of the canvas into a no place of the floating in-between. The effect is nonlocal. It is nowhere in particular. It is a whole-field effect. Where it effectively comes from is not strictly speaking a space either, but an elemental relational field. The objective space of seeing has been self-possessed by vision, and in the process converted into an abstract time of the thinking-feeling of vision. Semblance of sight.
The thinking-feeling of vision’s self-possession is on one level a playing out of a differential relation (of nonrelation) between ingredient elements becoming immanent to its event. Simultaneously, on another level, it is a way of vision relating to its own occurrence: a self-relating of vision. This is a duplex event. A double experience. Experience of a double ordering. The sensuous order of local signs is seen to cede to a thinking-feeling of nonsensuous linkage in an overall fusion-effect. Vitality affects of vision are seen to emerge-together away from their surface, and dissolve into each other. The affective tonality in which they are enveloped, and in which