the singular quality of the event consists, concerns only this abstract move- ment—which is the very movement of abstraction. The perception is not of something in particular. It is a perception of perception (92). It is a thinking-feeling of what experientially it means to perceive. A direct, immediate consciousness of the world’s ever-ongoing self-abstraction, intensely exemplified. A kinesthetic-proprioceptive glimpse of the qualita- tive-relational universe of its experiential becoming.
This self-relating of vision is self-referential, even reflective, in a special sense. It is not a reflection in vision, of the world. Nor a reflection on vision, in consciousness. Rather, it is a conscious reflection, in the event of vision, of the pure act by which it always amodally departs from itself, in a reaching-toward the point of its feeling-quality’s relational indistinc- tion with thought. All in the “fourth-person” singular. Of an event under- stood as a pure elemental act we say, “it.” It happens. It rains. It snows.
. . . It thinking-feels.
It is only at this culminating point where vision self-references its event in a pure act of its own thinking-feeling, that the segue can occur from this adventure in composing-away to composings-with venturing further afield. Irwin’s composing-away of extra-elements suspended seeing in incipient figure-ground effect, incipient horizon effect, incipient vertical gravitational effect. Buds of space. The pure energy released from the visual surface could not be otherwise than kinesthetic-proprioceptive. Quivering vision is not far, amodally-nonlocally speaking, from itchy feet. Buds of ambulation. Irwin’s painstaking investigations succeeded in making immanent to vision a nascency of space and the extensive move- ments that had been among the prime targets of its project of purification. Inadvertent and unavoidable inclusions were caught in the pure act, in the way prehistoric bugs are found as inclusions in amber. Things that have been purified out of the world and suspended in time uncannily returning.