unrest” from which an activist philosophy departs requires a concept of potential qualifying process as the production of the new: in  a word, “becoming” (Whitehead 1978, 28).
“‘Creativity’ is the principle of novelty” (Whitehead 1978, 21). To be at all is to become, actively creative. “Process for its intelligibility involves the notion of a creative activity belonging to the very essence of the occa- sion.” The transformation of the potential into the actual is a “process of self-creation.” “Such transformation includes the immediacy of self- enjoyment” (Whitehead 1968, 151).
The simple gesture of starting again from the beginning—that is, in the midst—has led to a rapid cascade of concepts. From something doing to the bare fact of activity; from there to event and change; then on to poten- tial and the production of the new; coming to process as becoming. Then, a major twist. The straight run encounters turbulence: process as becoming is not just creative activity, it turns out. It is self-creation. More than that, the self-creation is “enjoyed.” The principle of unrest eddies into some- thing we would be forgiven for suspecting is not unlike an aesthetic appre- ciation: an enjoyment of creativity. How is this “at no remove”? How is this immediate? Doesn’t it imply self-reflection? Doesn’t self-reflection imply the luxury of the contemplative distance on the world? Isn’t that exactly what is excluded by the bare activist fact that we always find our- selves smack in the middle of its unrest? The paradox of an immediate “self-enjoyment” of experience, “belonging to the very essence” of its every occasion, is the complicating knot around which this approach to philoso- phy ties its concepts. It inscribes a certain duplicity into the very heart of its thinking and of the world.2
The duplicity is in fact an artifact of the immediacy. It is simply that each occasion of experience comes into itself amid activities that are not its own, already going on. The coming event takes a dose of the world’s surrounding “general activity” and selectively channels it into its own “special activity” (Whitehead 1967a, 176). Its special activity is its occurring in the singular way that it does, toward the novel change in which it will culminate. There is an inaugural moment of indecision between the already-going-on-around and the taking-in-to-new-effect, before the culmination of this occurrence has sorted out just what occasion it will have been. This “primary phase” of the occasion of experience is the middling moment of bare activity with which process philosophy is pivotally concerned. Bare activity: the just-