depth-effect that was not consciously seen at first, but was already non- consciously activated. All it needed to come into effect was the actual kinesthetic-proprioceptive experience of walking around the room. The fusion-effect of the artwork resulted from a nonconscious collaboration between vision and the sense of movement. Your walking around the room was not just an incidental. It had been pre-composed into the coming event as an active force for its taking-effect. The viewer’s walking around the gallery was included in the work as a constitutive element of it. It was made to become immanent to the work, as a contributor to the relational field. Extensive movement had been taken-in. As the tensions between elements involved were taking their time to play out, the determinate seeing of the scrim was rising toward the threshold of conscious awareness. The work is not the scrim. It is not the room. It is the perception of the perception-of-perception’s complex becoming consciously determinate, in an amodal collaboration between seeing and extensive movement.
The perception of perception occurring is not the subjective viewpoint of the gallery visitor. The experience takes: it takes its own time; it takes elements into itself; and it takes in the catalytic sense of an effect setting in, or the combustive sense of a slow detonation. The experience belongs not to any one element, but to their coming-together in just this way. It comes of a “nexus” (Weschler 1982, 64). The human element of the gallery visitor is, to be sure, a privileged link in the nexus. But from the point of view of the technique of existence taking expression, the human element is less the center than the conduit for the expressive event’s culmination. It is there for feeling the nexus (Whitehead 1978, 230), to give it determinate subjective form. The experiential effect occurs to the visitor, as it occurs to itself as its own event, through the conduit of the visitor. The effect wells up from below the threshold of human awareness. It comes to pass the threshold in its way, following its own rhythm, when it is ready to set in. It—the event-nexus—expresses its own coming-together, as it passes through its human-channeled bringing-itself-into-perceptual-focus. This makes the experience integrally ecological.
That the event is ecological does not mean that it is “natural” as opposed to cultural. It takes in elements classifiable as natural (the physiol- ogy of the human body, the physics of light and materials) in a way that effectively fuses them with cultural elements. The coming-together draws on a nature-culture continuum. What are normally considered elements