is not reducible to a difference in content. Its question concerns vitality affects more primordially than contents, and affective tonalities more sug- gestively than categories.
Processually speaking, Mahler fell on the same side as Irwin in their shared project of purifying their art of content. They differed in their strate- gies for how to deal with the eternal tendency of content to return, and how to maintain the experiential intensity of the events of expression to be composed.
Mahler composed-away for an absoluteness of music. He effected a singular becoming-sound of extra-musical elements. However, he did this in a way that was not apt to lead outside musical activity as he and his time generically knew it. Leakage into the surroundings of the music hall was included-out, even as the surroundings were grandiosely taken-in. The becoming of orchestral music he invented was designed to be self-returning. He peculiarly altered the vitality affects of musical activity, but retained its affective tonality as music. He figures prominently in the annals of music history.
Irwin’s process of composing-away extra-elements in painting phased out into the surroundings. It continued into composings-with. His peculiar alterations in the vitality affects of painting launched themselves into an evolution that led them to become integrally other. The affective tonality of the undertaking was constantly under investigation at the same time as the techniques for modulating vitality affects (means of creatively imbuing the artwork with occurrent perceptual “energies”). His process extended itself through phase shifts. It was continually moved to dephase itself, morphing to a next phase. Irwin’s place in art history will likely be long contested (painter? sculptor? installation artist? light artist? spatial artist? gardener?).
Mahler’s technique of existence insistently rephased on a becoming more intensely and absolutely itself. Irwin’s dephased toward becoming more expansively other, without ever compromising on the purity of its own aim for intensity. Mahler invented a new mode of musical perception, keeping it tightly wound around itself, and without highlighting the per- ception of that perception. Irwin invented new modes of perception in expanding circles while foregrounding the perception-of-perception at every step, making the pure act of expression expansively self-referential rather  than  tightly  self-returning.  Mahler  embraced  the  speculative