production of  a universe  of  music. Irwin’s  speculative  creativity went ambulatory in the world in a way that intensely foretraced pragmatic movements in urban potential.
These processual differences are far more crucial to understanding Mah- lerian and Irwinian expressive events as aesthetic techniques of existence than is any conventional analysis of their formal style or art-historical approach to their ostensible content. Processual differences precede content and exceed formalism. They precede content in the nascency of the experi- ential event. This nascency always concerns an avidity of appetition, a lure to intensity, an activity of coming-together, before it concerns the determi- nation of a content (if it comes to that at all). They exceed form definition in the self-floating of a nonsensuous similarity that passes, the moment it is produced, into an extra-being of continual qualitative-relational differencing.
How can it not be recognized that these aesthetic processual differences are at one and the same time political? It makes a political difference whether a process revolves around a self-returning becoming or a becom- ing-other. It makes a political difference, when a process reaches its termi- nus, whether the surroundings remain composed-away, or whether the composing-away teaches itself to go-with so that the surroundings out back in. It makes a political difference to what extent a technique of existence negotiates its relation to its own activity: whether or in what way it extends itself into the perception-of-perception. It makes a political difference how it acts speculatively, which is to say, how it navigates the speculative- pragmatic duplicity of all experience.
Potentially. All of this makes a difference potentially. This is about potential politics. But then, a potential politics is a politics of potential. And what politics is not about potential? Qualitative-relational potential. Of forms of life in the making.
A form of life was defined earlier as “a complex manner of being/being able/knowing/wanting, appearing eventfully together in virtual mutual inclusion.” “Under conditions of change” is implicit in the definition. Also understood was that the “being” was its own event: a being of becoming. A technique of existence is the operator of a form of life as a mode of becoming. The events that are according to its operation, are its creatures. The operation of a technique of existence is a mode of composition. The compositional process is ontogenetic: concerning the appearing of forms of