life. If politics is about the potential animating forms of life, then it is essentially bound up with the operation of techniques of existence. That its activity is compositional and ontogenetic makes it more fundamentally creative than regulative, inventive more than interpretive. The notion that the complex manner constituting a form of life appears in “virtual” mutual inclusion immediately raises the question of amodal experience and non- sensuous similarity—placing the problem of lived abstraction at the heart of the political.
We are now speculatively-pragmatically beyond the point of no return for separating the aesthetic from the political. Political vocabulary will have to expand to deal with issues such as how qualities of movement detach from combinations of objective forms in encounter. How the movement of events continues virtually “behind” where it goes, and “beyond” where it stops. How nonlocal linkages spontaneously detach from the changing location of things. How they enter into qualitative- relational congress in a universe of their own constitutional order. How the world is governed by a double order of synchresis and concrescence playing on and off each other. How all being is integrally both: double play, double existence. This gives a whole new meaning to the term “political duplicity.”
The “politics of aesthetics” does not only have to do with “distributions of the sensible” (Rancière 2006). More intensely, more inventively, and more powerfully, it has to with distributions between the sensible and the nonsensuous: the double aesthetico-political economy of experience. Aes- thetic issues of how the world’s double synchretic/conscrescent ordering is creatively negotiated, such as those just mentioned concerning self- returning, becoming-other, and the occurrent self-referentiality  of  pure acts of expression, become core criteria for thinking the political. They do not only apply to activities conventionally categorized as belonging to the actual domain of art (as defined in relation to recognized art institutions and the art market). They apply to all domains, including those defined as political in the conventional sense (electoral politics, grassroots politics, the media through which political images and discourses circulate). These aesthetically political criteria relevant to all techniques of existence in what- ever domain add up an aesthetic criterion of politicality at the core of the speculative pragmatist approach. The speculative-pragmatic criterion of