beginning-to-stir of the event coming into its newness out of the soon to be prior background activity it will have left creatively behind. The just- beginning is on the cusp of the “more” of the general activity of the world- ongoing turning into the singularity of the coming event. Every event is singular. It has an arc that carries it through its phases to a culmination all its own: a dynamic unity no other event can have in just this way. The unity of the occasion is the just-this-way in which the phases of the arced unfold- ing hold together as belonging to the same event.
All this is felt. Both the coming-into-its-own out of a prior moreness of the world’s general always-going-on, and the unity of the holding-together of phases arcing to a culmination in just this singular way, are felt. The general feeling of the world’s more-than of activity going on, and the singular feeling of that activity specifically coming to this, just so, are immediate dimensions of experience’s occurring. They are dual immedia- cies of process.
The first dimension—the experience’s just-beginning-to-stir in a more- than of its own coming activity—is the relational dimension of the event’s occurring. It is the event under the aspect of its immediate participation in a world of activity larger than its own. This bare activity of coming experience finding itself in the midst must, in some sense of the word, be perceived. Otherwise it would effectively come to nothing. To be a some- thing-doing effectively is to be felt: to register (if only in effect). In what way bare activity is effective and felt, even though it lies at the very thresh- old of experience just coming into itself, is a major question which runs throughout this book. It is a question worrying every discussion, even where the term bare activity is not itself brought out. Everywhere it is already there, where it always is: at the cusp.
The second dimension—the experience coming out of bare activity into itself just so—is the qualitative dimension of the event’s occurring: its thus- ness. This registers as the event’s immediate enjoyment of the specialness of its holding itself together in just the way it comes to do. This cannot but be felt. Each phase of the event must in some way perceive the perti- nence of the phase before it, in order to gather the prior phase’s momen- tum into its own unfolding. Even as it does this, it is already anticipating a subsequent phase, to which it will in turn relay the momentum of the event’s occurrence. The phases of occurrence overlap as they relay each other following an arc of felt becoming. In the overlap and relay, they