politicality concerns the most basic technical question raised by the events of the world’s double ordering.
That question is, what is to be done? …. with content. In what way will the technique of existence play content between synchresis and concres- cence? Will it empty its process of content, suspending itself in its content- readiness, and if so, to what nonsensuous ends? If the technique suspends its process in content-readiness, how far will it take the suspension and how long will it maintain it? Into what Time of transformation will the technique of existence compose its content away? To the intensive end? Will it plant ways for its buds to resprout? If so, into what new concres- cences, following what new world–lines, will they bourgeon? Or will the process revert to existing world-lines, tried and true?
The speculative-pragmatic “what is to be done?” orients the question in starkly contrasting directions to Lenin’s question of the same wording. Lenin’s question begged for an answer along the (party) lines of: order from without. The force of the speculative-pragmatic question orients toward the bringing to expression of immanent forces of existence. Lenin’s question was political in the way in which it admitted of only one “correct” solution, gesturing to quite a different sense of “force.” The speculative-pragmatic question is not a political question in the same way. It is a question of politicality. Its answers are potentially many, each self-deciding from within a process’s immanent movement of self- formation. The speculative-political criterion of politicality concerns the intensity with which a process lives itself out. It is not concerned with how the process measures up to a prefixed frame of correct judgment applied to it from without. It concerns the intensity of a form of life’s appetite to live qualitative-relational abstraction creatively, as an imma- nent measure of its changing powers of existence: forces for becoming. The “aim at intensity of feeling” as part of a “creative advance” into novelty understood as “an aesthetic fact” is, after all, Whitehead’s “ulti- mate” criterion for all process (Whitehead 1978 20, 277–279). Politicality in this  sense  is  not  incidental  to  the  metaphysical  reality  of  process. It is no add-on or afterthought. It comes flush with the ultimate meta- physical questions. These, as he repeatedly asserts, are of a cosmological order. This implies there is politics even where there is no human. He famously refers to the “democracy” of trees (1967a, 206.) At the limit,