If the intensity of a form of life’s grappling with the eternal return of content constitutes its politicality, then techniques of existence that fail to grapple with it, or refuse to, are apolitical. The more political a technique of existence is, the more inventively iterative it is. It self-phrases, following a rhythm of repeated differencings with a characteristic momentum. It phases, dephases, and rephases, taking its own time, setting in as it will. It eventfully self-expresses. A technique mobilizing less intense politicality makes statements instead. It’s all “about.” It purports to express in extra to its own occurrence—as opposed to in the excess of it. It is content to point to extra-elements as lying outside its process, often as if they lay outside of all process. Common sense and good sense do this. Opinion does this. Doctrine does it also. They go on “about” things. They refer and represent, designate and demonstrate, symbolize and signify. They point the finger and pound the fist. They go on as if pure demonstration were possible. This amounts to a demonstrative denial of process. It is to take things as already where they are and what they are, already made, sitting pretty in a preassumed form, determinately and determinedly just taking up space in a crowded world, slothfully residing on location, if not still, then not moving too fast to point the finger at, before any thinking even begins to be felt. If change is on the agenda, ways must be found to add it back in. The sloth of the world must be stirred to action, following a demonstra- tively sound program “realistically” taking as its point of departure the prelocated “where” and predefined “what” of things, rather than the “how” and “which” of the process (of everything always already under transformation). Apoliticality starts from general statements like “That’s just the way it is” and “Be realistic.” If it moves ahead from there, it is on the shuffling crutches of a tired “ought”—one often reflecting a sense of how things used to be, in the old days when they were really sitting pretty. “That’s the way things were”/“that’s that way things ought to be” . . . so stop fidgeting and be realistic, already. Apoliticality’s arc, in its conservative expression, is from the inertia of the real back to the future. In its revolu- tionary expression, it is equally concerned with backing the future into