conformity with a past: just a recent past of directive decision by a van- guard. In either case, the appetite is for subordinating activity to statement, and statement to program. This way of doing “politics” is at best program proud. It is always process poor—and for that reason, qualifies speculative- pragmatically as apolitical (acosmopolitical).
The provocation of the speculative-pragmatic criterion of politicality is that it evaluates what conventionally passes precisely as political as intensi- ties of the apolitical: programmatic statement. This characterizes ideologi- cal and party platforms, reform programs, concrete goal-oriented lobbying efforts, doctrine-centered movements, as embodying the acosmopolitical, to one degree or another, however “political” they are in stated aim and however “revolutionary” they may be in programmatic content. The chal- lenge of speculative-pragmatism’s criterion of politicality to political think- ing is that it does not obey the traditional categories of the Right-Left, radical–conservative, that are conventionally applied to programmatic- statement based techniques of existence. With the respect to language, the criterion of politicality pertains much less to its usefulness for making statements than to the degree to which a technique of existence avails itself of its imaginative powers: its ability to marshal powers of the false, not in order to designate the way things are but to catalyze what’s to come, emergently, inventively, un-preprogrammed and reflective of no past model. This is the power of language to perform virtual events of foretracing. Its speculative-pragmatic power to produce a truth. It is a directly perfor- mative power, compelling without the crutch of the programmatic. It is an invocative power. A “magic” power to invoke relational realities into world-lining.
What language handles, as a technique of existence for the production of virtual events, are not semantic contents. Neither are they are codes of content or syntaxes for content formation. Nor symbolic meaning. Nor metaphorical associations. What language as a technique of existence processes, directly and immediately in lived abstraction, is the eventful singularity of vitality affects, and the mode of their mutual transformative inclusion in generic affective tonalities. Politicality is always, on its leading edge, affective (Massumi 2005; Massumi 2009, 157–158, 173; Massumi 2010a). The Right has radically understood this, parlaying its strongly performative thinking-feeling  of affective  politicality  into a  thirty-year march  that  has  many  a  produced  pragmatic  truth  to  show  for  the