co-perceive their mutual inclusion in the same event. They co-feel their belonging to each other in co-occurrence. If this were not the case, their multiplicity would not make “an” event. The event would not hold together as one. It would lack dynamic unity. It would dissipate before it could singularly culminate.
The qualitative dimension of the event is the how it happens, co-felt, in the immediacy of its now unfolding. How-now. The qualitative how-now of the event is the feeling it has of participating in itself. It is the feeling of its unfolding self-relation. If this “self-enjoyment” by the event of its own becoming is a form of reflection, it is not only at no remove from the event; it is an essential factor in its occurrence. It is because an event “enjoys” itself in this arcingly immediate way that it is able to follow through with itself. And it is because it follows through with itself that it qualifies as self-creative.
The duplicity with which Whitehead’s process philosophy is pivotally concerned is this constitutive doubling of the event into co-occurrent relational and qualitative dimensions. William James’s own brand of activ- ist philosophy—“radical empiricism”—is struck by the same duplicity. The basic tenet of radical empiricism is that everything that is experienced is real in some way and that everything real is in some way experienced. If “change taking place” is really the basic matter of fact of the world, then the radical empiricist must hold that “change itself is . . . immediately experienced” (James 1996a, 48). James discusses the experience of change in terms of relation. Disjunctive relations involve an experience actively “passing out” of the initial “quasi-chaos” to take a direction of its own, “terminating” its movement in a way all its own, to its own separate effect (James 1996a, 63). Disjunction is separative transition, across a threshold of becoming. Conjunctive relation is transitional continuity of becoming (62). Conjunctive relation is how the before and after of a threshold passed mutually include each other in the same event, as “pulses” of the same change. Conjunctive and disjunctive relations both concern change. For radical empiricism, they are both real and immediately experienced.
Disjunctive relations are felt as a self-distancing coming out of an initial condition of participation in the quasi-chaotic something-doing that is the general condition of activity in the world. Conjunctive relations are felt as a “tendency” or “striving” (166–167) that continues across thresholds often marked by resistances and obstacles. “The word ‘activity’ has no imaginable