content. Semblances of a certain artistic kind make gestures of revealing a content that lies beneath their surface. They reveal that depth in the very gesture of veiling it. For theirs is a surface beauty in the sense of a “mere” appearance. It is only significant for what lies behind it. So mere is its appearance that in one sense it covers the true content. But its superficiality is at the same time the only way of accessing the depth of truth. Its sem- blance is an uncovering cover for a demure truth.
The depth of truth is reticent because it is nonsensuous, in a certain way. Not the singularly occurrent way that has been the concern of this essay. It is nonsensuous in the unchanging way of a truth eternal. This is the kind of art that critics will say reveals something “universal” about the human condition. The truth will typically be of the human predicament, of what it “means” to be a person. It could, however, be a truth of nature’s “univer- sal” order (its acosmopolitial order). Or a sovereign truth. Whatever. But whatever the truth is of, it is of it in the utmost general sense. The truth is not really in a necessary state of concealment because of its nonsensuous character—but rather due to its utmost generality. As we have seen, the nonsensuous is precisely that which appears. The occurrent singularity of a nonsensuous similarity that detaches from a sensuous surface to float in a “space” that is a Time of change, can be (cannot but be) perceptually felt. The “universal” generality of the truth beneath the surface can never be so felt. It is of the general kind of abstraction that holds no immediacy, so heavily it sits in its eternity. It cannot intensely return to the surface through gesture. It can only be gestured to, superficially. It can only be indirectly evoked, the more portentously the better. The surface sensuous forms of the artwork’s composition are the only perceptual mode of access to the depths. They must point to a beyond of their world—but not to a qualitative-rela- tional universe of transformation that is duplicitously one with the event. What makes these truth-revealing sensuous forms evocative is their beauty, defined in a specific way: as a harmony of the sensuous forms involved (Benjamin 1996c, 224). The harmony of sensuous forms recalls the perfect order of the eternal truth beneath and beyond. It repeats its form, and in so doing brings its principle of order to sensuous experience. The beauty renders perceptible a hidden content in a formal resemblance. This makes the harmony of sensuous forms the symbol of the truth. Deadening
semblance is formally-contentful symbolic semblance.