Semblance, made symbolic, forgets again that resemblance is produced and that it pertains only to the singularity of events. Operating symboli- cally, beauty presupposes, in harmony, a principle of formal resemblance that is generally prior to the artwork, which then takes this general prece- dence as its organizing principle. Composition becomes subordinated once again to an a priori principle of resemblance. Resemblance comes before the event, and takes precedence over it. It takes a certain amount of acquired interpretive skills, what Irwin called “articulate reading,” for the viewer to become a competent party to the symbolic reference. With the precedence of resemblance comes the dominance of interpretation. When the meaning uncovered through interpretation is said to be “universal,” read “generally legible”: truly evocative to a typical member of a given community, of a given class, with a given educational level, in a given period. With the dominance of interpretation comes the consensual tyranny of cultural standards as applied to art.
Benjamin comments that the beautiful semblance, as mere appearance providing an uncovering cover for a universal truth, already belonged to a bygone age at the time of his writing in the first half of the twentieth century. Yet it remained an issue for him, and he came back to the ques- tion of the beautiful semblance over many years. Presumably, this was because there were contemporary practices that still owed something to this manner of semblance-making. There still are. Echoes of the beautiful semblance can be heard loud and clear in the words of Martha Graham quoted earlier. Any work that primarily defines its effect as simply or purely evocative—as “poetic” in a symbolic sense or as “metaphorical”—is in the business of the beautiful semblance. Its “universality” and “depth” will be praised to high consensual heaven. In the twentieth and twenty-first cen- turies, the truths uncovered are almost invariably of the human condition, with a first-person address. The exhortation is to “identify” : the principle of resemblance still takes precedence, and is still taken by the artwork as its organizing principle, but now the resemblance is to be taken personally, in the first-person universal (I, Everyman). Truth morphs into “authentic- ity.” Articulate reading becomes far less important. To identify, all you need is personal feeling, and everybody human of any station presumably has that. Personal feeling: emotion. The universal reign of emotional generality claims the content of art.