There is not just one kind of beautiful semblance. There are different “degrees” of beautiful semblance, of very different aesthetic and political force. The scale is “determined not by the greater or lesser degree of beauty but by the extent to which a thing has more or less the character of sem- blance” (Benjamin 1996c, 224, all quotes below 224–225). There is in beauty a sliding scale of semblance that moves between two poles. At one end is the apoliticality of the semblance whose beauty evokes the-truth of its content. At the other end, there is the “semblance in which nothing appears”—which is its own appearing, and whose appearing isn’t a “mere” appearance but a sui generis event.
The scale is the scale of aliveness: “In an artifact of beautiful semblance, the semblance is all the greater the more alive it seems.” Semblance and aliveness are indissociable. There is always “life quivering” in the event of the semblance. Bare activity (James 1996a, 160–162; Massumi 2009, 170– 173; Massumi 2010a). Pure activity of life, abstractly appearing with all the reality of an intensive event.
“Quivering life is never symbolic.” But it can be forcibly contained in harmony and its symbolic associations. When it is, the harmony “trem- bles” with life, but does not release it. It channels it toward the truth, to which it gives a sheen, a beautiful shimmer. Symbolism contains abstract life-intensity in the truth. It slides the artwork toward the deadening apo- litical pole of the scale. Art, and life, must then be wrenched from that pole by “critical violence.”
Critical violence consists in “arresting” the beautiful semblance. “Inter- rupting” its trembling for truth. “Petrifying” it, “paralyzing” it, holding it “spellbound.” The retrograde movement of the truth is suspended. The expression of the truth hesitates, unable to complete the evocative retreat into the depths of reference. The a priori principle of resemblance waivers. Harmony is no longer guaranteed and authorized by it, so the truth is no longer uncovered by its surface veil. Symbolism and metaphor are