composed-away. The dialectic of covering-uncovering ceases. Life quivers all the more intensely perceptually-felt, in a “compelling” openness of indetermination  regained.
Life again unlimited, its semblance no longer under sentence to express a general truth or personal feeling. Art at the highest degree of the “expres- sionless.” Bare activity of expression. “No definite direction, no actor, no aim” other than its own intensity (James 1996a, 160). The unlimiting of life’s quiver releases the force of all the intensity that had been contained. The opening onto bare activity is explosive, “shattering” the work “into fragments, reducing it to the smallest totality of a semblance.” A smallest totality, explosively produced: a totally singular dynamic unity. Benjamin’s “expressionless” is what was here called “pure expression”: an intensity- expressing experiential event that is wholly and only its own self-floating occurrence.
The theory of the beautiful semblance, Benjamin says, is not just about art in the narrow sense. He makes it clear that it is also about politicality, and says explicitly that is “essential for metaphysics” as well. In his explo- sive fragment of a semblance as “smallest totality,” we can see James’s little absolute of “immediately given relation” (James 1996b, 280; see this book’s introduction). The semblance was defined in chapter 2 as a little absolute, which was in turn affirmed as the fundamental metaphysical reality from the perspective of a radical empirical philosophy and its twin sister specula- tive pragmatism. The little absolute, James was quoted as saying, includes its own other in its event in such a way that any identity it might be attributed, by whatever means, symbolic or otherwise, “telescopes and diffuses into other reals” (James 1996b, 272). Metaphysico-politically. Cosmopolitically.
Benjamin seems to agree. But he insists on the metaphysico-political point, also grappled with by radical empiricism and speculative pragma- tism, that immediately given relation is a nonrelation. “The expression- less,” Benjamin writes, is that critical violence which, “while unable to separate semblance from truth in art, prevents them from mingling.” The composing-away of truth and content is actually a kind of separative composing-with: together, but separate, disjunct, in differential tension. Intensely, duplicitously. Synchretically-conscrescently.
Is “critical violence” but a duplicitous way of explosively holding in reserve buds of content for a blossoming to come? Does the “the power of