content whatever save these experiences of process, obstruction, striving, strain, or release.” These are “ultimate qualia” (James 1996a, 166–167). It is artificial to oppose disjunctive relations to conjunctive relations. How could each occasion of experience not involve both: a disjunctive coming-out of prior participation, and a quality of continuing-across enabled by that sepa- ration? Strains, obstructions, and resistances mark the continued formative pressure of the quasi-chaotic manyness of the oceanic somethings-doings all around on the singular “drop” of experience in the self-creating (James 1996b, 231–232). Ingressions of bare-active relation pulse the event, modu- lating its onward phasing. Every event is a qualitative-relational economy of process, “full of both oneness and manyness” (James 1996a, 93–94):
The continuities and the discontinuities are absolutely co-ordinate matters of imme- diate feeling. The conjunctions are as primordial elements of “fact” as are the dis- tinctions and disjunctions. In the same act by which I feel that this passing minute is a new pulse of my life, I feel that the old life continues into it, and the feeling of continuance in no wise jars upon the simultaneous feeling of a novelty. They, too, compenetrate harmoniously. (95)
The relational-qualitative duplicity at the heart of activist philosophy is a differential, not a dichotomy. It concerns coincident differences in manner of activity between which things happen. The coming-together of the dif- ferences as such—with no equalization or erasure of their differential— constitutes a formative force. It is this force that provides the impulse that the coming experience takes into its occurrence and appropriates as its own tendency. Although the activity differentials are never erased, they do “compenetrate” to “harmonious” result. Between them, they co-compose a singular effect of unity resulting from how it is that they come differently together. An integral of action and experience—a dynamic unity of self- enjoying occurrence—emerges from the energetic playing out of their impulsive difference.
Rather than a dichotomy, the relational-qualitative duplicity in  the midst of which activist philosophy begins is a principle of co-composition between coincident manners of occurring. As a principle it is specifically designed to disable the traditional dichotomies haunting Western philoso- phy. The differential involved cannot, for example, be overlaid on the subject-object dichotomy. The duplicity concerns activity and the poten- tial for the appearance of novelty astir in it. Neither potential nor activity is object-like. They are more energetic than object-like (provided that no