1. Although Whitehead and James privilege the concept of activity in highly con- sonant ways, they differ on the vocabulary of “bare activity.” Whitehead uses the term in a sense opposed to James’s and adopted here from James. Whitehead uses “bare activity” to refer to the Newtonian notion of matter, according to which matter can be understood purely in terms of its occupancy of space and its extensive movements in space at an instant. By this reckoning, matter can be understood “without reference to any other instant, or to any other piece of matter, or to any other region of space.” It is essentially without relation, and being without relation is of itself without importance (Whitehead 1968, 146–147). This is the “fallacy of misplaced concreteness” mentioned later in this introduction. Its effect is to separate matter from life. Both James and Whitehead agree in their refutation of this approach in favor of concepts of event, change, potential, and creativity that implicate matter in life and life in matter, and both in mentality, such that neither can be purified of its involvement in the other. For a recent approach moving in consonant philo- sophical directions, see Bennett (2010).
2. One of the most compressed expressions of this in Whitehead is: “The process through which a feeling passes in constituting itself also records itself in the subjec- tive form of the integral feeling” (Whitehead 1978, 226). Compare Deleuze and Guattari’s “second synthesis” of process, that of the “production of recording” (the third being the culmination of “enjoyment”) (Deleuze and Guattari 1983, 9–21).
3. Another paradox is not dealt with extensively in what follows but bears mention- ing for reasons of  precision regarding Whitehead’s vocabulary.  It concerns the concept of change. If an occasion of experience is absolutely its own event of self- creation, then it is misleading to refer to it as a change (Whitehead 1978, 35). Considered in itself, in its little-absoluteness, it has only its own sheer becoming, as the mutual inclusion of its phases in each other. To call it a change implies a comparison between a before and an after. But an occasion of experience is all in its own occurrence. It is entirely absorbed its own singularly happening sheerness.