An occasion of experience is unchanging because it is absolutely its own becoming: sheer production of novelty. Strictly speaking, for Whitehead, “change” makes sense only as applied to how novel occasions of experience succeed one another. Change occurs between occasions of experience, and it is the differential between them that allows it to be said that a change has taken place, which is what constitutes an event. For Whitehead, an occasion of experience considered in its own dynamic unity of becoming is not the model for the concept of event. A single occasion of experience, Whitehead says, is a limit-case event: a “limit type of event with one member” (Whitehead 1978, 73). The occasion of experience’s becoming is but the minima of happening. Even so, a limit-case event is still an event, however mini- mally. Actual occasions are after all called occasions. As important as these precisions are metaphysically, they are not focused on in this book. The technical Whitehead- ian distinctions between event and experience of occasion, and between becoming and change, were not necessary for its project. The usage here conforms more to Deleuze and Deleuze and Guattari, for whom event, becoming, and change come together (Deleuze 1990; Deleuze and Guattari 1987). Whitehead’s “sheer individual- ity,” its Jamesian little-absoluteness, are also read in a way that does not exclude infoldings of chance encounters intervening during an occasion’s becoming. The Whiteheadian justification for this is the doctrine that an occasion of experience includes in its own constitution the “more” of the world that lies beyond its indi- viduality: “each entity, of whatever type, essentially involves its own connection with the universe of other things” (Whitehead 1968, 66). The only way the inclusion of the more-beyond can belong to the constitution of the occasion is in the form of capacities of infolding (and techniques for bequeathing the formative activity of this occasion to others—diagrams). The only way capacities can infold is if they are at the same time affectabilities. Given the durational nature of the occasion of experi- ence (Whitehead 1978, 125) and the always going on around of other durations, the affective capacity for infolding must be operative on the fly. There will always be “smaller” durations knocking against the window like the wings of moths. The aim of Whitehead’s principle of “conceptual reversion” is to take account of this. According to this principle, “there is a secondary origination of conceptual feelings with data which are partially identical and partially diverse from” the data in the primary phase. “In this second phase the proximate novelties are conceptually felt.” “There is a conceptual contrast of physical incompatibilities.” This leads to a “sub- sequent enrichment” of the occasion (Whitehead 1978, 249). This is not in contra- diction with the occurrent unity of the occasion’s sheer individuality. The unity of an experience is the tendential arc of its occurrence through its phases. An occasion of experience is not “itself” in the sense of a bounded unity or a closed totality. It is a constitutively open dynamic unity, which is a function of its capacity to open itself to self-modulation. Activist philosophy transforms monadism into transmo- nadism (Guattari 1995, 112–116) and in the same stroke, converting “autopoiesis” into “heterogenesis” (33–57). The phasing of the event of experience cannot be indifferent to interference encountered en route. These must be taken up in the