presuppositions are made as to the physicality of “energy” or the modes of causality involved in the energizing of events). For the basic category they suggest is just that: occurrence. Neither object nor subject: event.
Activist philosophy’s emphasis on the occurrent makes it a fundamen- tally nonobject philosophy. Deleuze enters the fold of activist philosophy when he says that “the event of alteration” is “one with the essence or the substance of a thing” (Deleuze 1988b, 32). This is another way of saying there is no essence or substance to things other than the novelty of their occurrence. “I have, it’s true, spent a lot of time writing about this notion of event: you see, I don’t believe in things” (Deleuze 1995, 160). He believes in the world—as process (Deleuze and Guattari 1983, 2–5; Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 20). Whitehead is on much the same page: “a well-marked object is not an inherent necessity for an event. Wherever and whenever something is going on, there is an event” (Whitehead 1964, 78). Nature itself, the world of process, “is a complex of passing events” (Whitehead 1964, 166). The world is not an aggregate of objects. To see it that way is to have participated in an abstraction reductive of the complexity of nature as passage (Whitehead 1964, 74–98). To “not believe in things” is to believe that objects are derivatives of process and that their emergence is the passing result of specific modes of abstractive activity. This means that objects’ reality does not exhaust the range of the real. The reality of the world exceeds that of objects, for the simple reason that where objects are, there has also been their becoming. And where becoming has been, there is already more to come. The being of an object is an abstraction from its becoming. The world is not a grab-bag of things. It’s an always-in-germ. To perceive the world in an object frame is to neglect the wider range of its germinal reality.
Activist philosophy is not a subjectivist philosophy either. It does not presuppose a subject, only “something” going on. Beginning with event- activity rather than the status of the subject makes activist philosophy a fundamentally noncognitive philosophy. Rather than asking what’s doing, cognitivist approaches ask what the subject can know of the world, as if the subject does not come to itself already in the midst but rather looked upon the world at a reflective remove that it is philosophy’s job to over- come. The cognitivist paradigm equates the subject with the knower, and the object with the known. Whitehead remarks that to begin there is to get off to a false start (Whitehead 1967a, 175). As James vigorously argues,