‘foreshortening,’ but rather only when the entire picture has been transformed—to cite another Renaissance theoretician—into a ‘window,’ and when we are meant to believe we are looking through this window into space. The material surface upon which the individual figures or objects are drawn or painted or carved is thus negated, and instead reinterpreted as a mere ‘picture plane.’ Upon this picture plane is projected the spatial continuum which is seen through it and which is understood to contain all the various individual objects” (Panofsky 1991, 27).
4. Simondon (2007, 208) speaks of the immanence of relation in the context of technical invention in terms that recall a number of the points about connectivity and contemporary independence made here. He calls the immanence of relation the dynamic “ground” (fond) of technical objects and their associated milieus: “Per- petually overlooked, the ground is what holds the dynamisms. It is what allows the system of forms to exist. Forms do not participate with other forms, but rather participate in the ground. The ground is the system of all forms or rather the common reservoir of the tendencies of forms before they even exist as separate entities and are constituted as an explicit system. The relationship of participation connecting the forms to the ground is a relation that straddles the present and imbues it with the potential influence of the future, with an influence of the virtual on the actual. For the ground is the system of virtualities, potentials, and forces on the way, whereas the forms constitute the system of the actual. Invention is a taking in charge of the system of actuality by the system of virtualities. It is the creation of one system from these two systems. Forms are passive inasmuch as they represent actuality. They become active when they organize themselves in relation to the ground, thus actualizing prior virtualities.”
5. Readers able to read French are encouraged to refer to the original. The transla- tion seriously obscures the complex play of Deleuze’s philosophical vocabulary around the key concepts of “actual/actualization” (terms which tend to fall out) and “real/realization” (variously translated). The original passages in question are in Deleuze (1988b, 107–108).
6. For an account of an abstractly lived-in movement that is not abstract in the sense of eschewing  figuration,  but  that  doubles  a  figurative  scene  (primarily of landscape), see Massumi (2003) on the panoramic photography of Luc Courchesne.
7. For a rethinking of touch itself in a way that recognizes the centrality of kines- thesia to all sensory experience, not only vision, see Manning (2007).