if you start by presupposing a subject-object divide, there is no way of preventing the separation from deepening into an abyss. How can the subject cross the divide to reattach itself to the objectivity “out there” on the other side? Doubt takes over. What if there is no other side? What if it’s all illusion? Descartes curls up into the safety of his stove, coming out only when his God is ready to vouchsafe a connection to reality for him (Descartes 1996, xxii). Less divinely baked philosophies invent ingenious ways of tightrope walking the abyss, or go through contortions to deny it is there. For James, these amount to so much acrobatics. An essential divide is presupposed the moment the categories of knower and known are over- laid upon the subject and the object, and no amount of subsequent maneu- vering, however ingeniously contortionist, will smooth it over. The problem is that any way you twist it, the knowing is still in the subject and the known is still right where it was on the other side. What can guarantee that they correlate to each other? With all certainty, says James, nothing. Any purported solution is smoke and mirrors. Cognitivist philosophies may purport to walk a graceful line between the subject and the object, but what they really do is take a run at making a “self-transcending” magic leap across the chasm (James 1996a, 52). They are “saltatory”: desparate attempts to magically jump an abyss of their own assuming. Or failing that to make it disappear with a flourish of the metaphysical wand (James 1978, 233, 245–246).
From the perspective of activist philosophy, philosophy should not overcome the cognitivist problem. The best approach is: don’t go there. Not going cognitive requires only a slight displacement, James explains. Consider the subjective and the objective as ways in which portions of experience—pulses of process—relate to each other (James 1996a, 196). What cognitivist philosophy grapples with as an essential divide, activist philosophy sees as “successive takings” by experience, in experience, of itself (James 1996a, 105). Here there can be no fundamental  doubt. Doubt as hard as you can, and all you have done is emphatically illustrate one of the ways experience is wont to take itself back up into itself, self- formatively. You have found yourself in doubt—no doubt a real event. Doubt took effect. A doubter you just effectively became. Activist philoso- phy is thoroughly realist. It affirms the reality of any and all takings-effect. Its question is not whether something is real or not. It is not out to dis- qualify, or eliminate. Rather, it asks what aspects of process an event’s