uncontained by any a priori form or order, but at the vanishing point where feeling enters into a zone of ontogenetic indistinction with thought.
10. What is being called a semblance here corresponds in many respects to what Deleuze in Logic of Sense (1990) calls a “simulacrum” or “pure effect.” In Anti-Oedipus, Deleuze and Guattari (1983) give a distinctly ontogenetic spin to this concept of simulation: “Simulation . . . expresses those nondecomposable distances always enveloped in intensities that divide into one another while changing their form.
. . . Simulation . . . is . . . strangely polyvocal, flush with the real. It carries the real beyond its principle to the point where it is effectively produced . . . the point where the copy ceases to be a copy in order to become the Real and its artifice . . . an intensive real as produced in the coextension of nature and history” (1983, 87). Echoes of the present vocabulary’s “differential attunement,” “mutual inclusion” in change, and transformational “nonlocal linkage” are audible in this passage.
11. This connects back to Deleuze’s concept of “cleaving things asunder” (Deleuze 1995, 86) and making a “Sahara” of them (Deleuze 2004b, 82, 128), discussed in chapter 2.
12. It is on the concept of the “space of the body” that the present account departs most significantly from José Gil’s brilliant theory of dance (Gil 2006), which is in many other respects consonant with the approach suggested here.
13. Erin Manning in her work on dance emphasizes that this emptying of human meaning and intention can free the nonhuman to dance. She develops the nonhu- man dimension of dance events by elaborating on William Forsythe’s concept of a “choreographic object”: an object that activates dance around itself. The choreo- graphic “object” is not an object in the usual sense. It is a catalyzer of a field of movement. Any human bodies involved are involved only to the extent that they are moved by the field as much as they are self-moving (Manning 2009b, forthcom- ing b). In Guattari’s vocabulary, the choreographic object is a nonhuman “nucleus of expression” (1995).