complete complex unity. But it fails to suggest the creative novelty involved. For example, it omits the notion of the individual character arising in the concreteness of the aboriginal data [the ingredient elements].” The words synchresis, fusion- effect, and nonsensuous similarity are used here to include the notion of the “indi- vidual character”—the qualitative-relational singularity—of the complex unity of an event of experience. The word “together,” Whitehead continues, “ is one of the most misused terms in philosophy.” The problem is that it is used “as though it conveyed one definite meaning,” and also as if there were togetherness outside of experience. In these uses, it is “sophistical.” For in fact “no things are together except in experi- ence; and no things are, in any sense of ‘are,’ except as components in experience or as immediacies of process which are occasions of self-creation.” Esse est sentiri: to be is to be felt. To be is to be experienced. Or more radically: to be is to be experience. Experience is not confined to the human, but is distributed across the nature-culture continuum. Every thing is a being of experience. One of the implications for the present approach of this way of thinking “together” is that, by Whitehead’s criteria, what is termed “interaction” is a sophistical concept because it is not used to connote ”immediacies of process.” To the contrary, interaction is defined in terms of objectively describable actions and reactions (technological functions) that mediate experience (see chapter 2).
17. “The Category of Subjective Intensity. The subjective aim, whereby there is origina- tion of feeling, is at intensity of feeling in the immediate subject, and in the relevant future” (Whitehead 1978, 27). The “ultimate creative purpose” is that “each unifica- tion shall achieve some maximum depth of intensity of feeling, subject to the condi- tions of its concrescence” (249). This “is the category whereby novelty enters the world” (249, see also 277–278).