taking-effect exemplifies. This effective realism even applies to the subject and object distinction, the conventional formulations of which it is so wary.
Activist philosophy does not deny that there is a duplicity in process between subjective and objective. It accepts the reality of both. Rather than denying them, activist philosophy affirms them otherwise, reinterpreting them in terms of events and their taking-effect. Specifically, it understands them in terms of the relaying between events, in their “successive takings.” This makes the problem of the subjective and the objective fundamentally a question of time, as implicating a multiplicity of events. Grappling with the problem of the subject and object becomes a way of developing activist philosophy’s take on multiplicity and time, a concept whose centrality is implicit from the start in activist philosophy’s emphasis on change.
The way that activist philosophy affirms the subjective and objective as aspects of the process of change is to say that process exhibits a formative duplicity. This links the definition of objective and subjective to the rela- tional-qualitative duplicity discussed earlier as co-composing dimensions of process. The distinction between separative/disjunctive and conjunc- tive/continuing aspects of process was another take on that duplicity of process, providing another angle of attack on the same problem. The subject/object distinction is yet another take on it.
Whitehead defines objectivity in terms of activity that has been left over in the world by previous events of change and that can be taken up by a next event for taking-in to its self-creation. The object is the “datum” in the etymological sense. It is the “given”: that which is actively found already in the world, to be taken for formative potential. The “subject” is what finds itself in the midst of these processual leavings, taking them up as the world’s gift of potential for its own taking-form. The “subjective” is not something preexisting to which an event occurs: it is the self-occurring form of the event. The dynamic unity of an occasion of experience is its “subjective form.” Actually, there is no “the” subject. There is no subject separate from the event. There is only the event as subject to its occurring to itself. The event itself is a subjective self-creation: the how-now of this singular self-enjoyment of change taking place. (For all these points, see Whitehead 1967a, 175–190, and 1978, 41, 52.)
This way of defining the objective and the subjective dimensions of the world of process places the objective at the cusp of the occasioning relation