of participation. The objectivity of an experience is that quantum of the surrounding activity that the coming occasion of experience selectively takes up into itself as it separates off to phase into the occasion of its own becoming. The object as such does not preexist this relay between occa- sions any more than the coming subject preexists its finding-itself-in-the- midst. It is taken for an object by the next occasion’s becoming. Given potential is objectively determined by how it is effectively taken up, as a relay experience feels its way into its occurrence. The objective belongs to the immediate past of just this occasion. But it just as immediately belongs to that occasion’s proximate future. The coming occasion’s passing will bequeath the potential-grabbing change its own activity has created to successor experiences, for their self-creative taking. The subjective is the passing present, understood not as a point in metric time but rather as a qualitative duration—a dynamic mutual inclusion of phases of process in each other, composing a “span” of becoming (this is James’s “specious present”) (Whitehead 1968, 89; on the durational span of an occasion, Whitehead 1978, 125 and James 1996a, 131; on the immediate past and the immediate future, Whitehead 1967a, 191–200).
This definition of the subjective and objective lays the groundwork for the processual definition of the knower and the known, but it does not map directly onto it. Technically speaking, for activist philosophy, the end of the experience knows its beginning (James 1996a, 57). All that a self- creating occasion of experience ultimately “knows” of the world’s activity is how it has taken up a portion of it into its own becoming. “What” this will have been exactly retains a certain indeterminacy as long as the becoming is still in process. The “what” of an experience is only fully defi- nite at its culmination. The knower, according to James, is the end of the experience’s becoming. What it “knows” is its own beginning, retroac- tively. An experience determinately knows what it’s been only as it peaks— which is also the instant of its “perishing” (Whitehead 1978, 29; Whitehead 1967a, 177). The only subject there is in the completed sense is a “super- ject”: the “final characterization of the unity of feeling” at an experience’s peaking (Whitehead 1978, 166). The “creative advance into novelty” runs from the objective vagueness of a quasi-chaos of activity already going on, to a terminal definiteness of an experience subjectively “satisfying” its enjoyment of itself in a final fulfillment knowingly felt (on vagueness, see Whitehead 1968, 109).