and the “higher” cognitive functions it inculcates. This is not at all the concept here. The concept is rather that all “higher” cognitive functions come back through the middle. They are only active to the extent that they reactivate in the quasi-chaotic midst of something doing again. They come back through, bare-actively, in all immediacy, as recreative factors of experience rearising. They are “judgments” that come in all immediacy as direct perceptions. They concern, for example, causal relation, similarity, categorizations, qualitative evaluations, linguistic associations, and even symbolic figurings. Peirce calls them “perceptual judgments,” admitting that it is something of a misnomer because they occur without a separate act of judgment (Peirce 1997, 93–94, 242–247). They come, he says, “as if” there had been a judgment but too immediately for one to have actually been performed. They are judgments without the actual judgment: direct perceptions of the world’s acquired complexity, incoming, flush with the bare-active firstness of experience feeling its way into a next event. This “feedback of higher forms” back into and through pure experience is summed up in the formula practice becomes perception (Massumi 2002, 30, 189–190, 198–199, 293n17; see also Massumi 2010a on “priming”). Chapters 2 and 4 of this book deal extensively with this factor of pure experience, analyzed under the term thinking-feeling.
The displacement from cognition, with its Cartesian stovepipe dream of foundational clearness and distinctness, to the messy middling goings- on of pure experience in all its potential and complexity, has far-reaching pragmatic consequences. This is because the cognitive subject-object dichotomy itself has far-reaching consequences. It extends itself into a division between ways of knowing, and from there into a hierarchy between modes of practice. This is especially evident in the division between disci- plines of knowledge that are in a position to make a claim to “objectivity” and those that are not. The traditional form this bifurcation of knowledge practices takes is the chasm between the “two cultures,” scientific and humanistic. The same division recurs within the disciplines on each side of that massive divide, between empirical methods (in a decidedly nonradi- cal sense) and speculative or theoretical approaches (dismissed by the other side as “merely” subjective). This divide repeats as a distinction between modes of practices, even practices that do not define themselves primarily as knowledge practices, such as political practices. Here, the dichotomy