recurs as an opposition between “fact-based” or “commonsense” approaches and “experimental,” “idealistic,” or “utopian” approaches, with a clear implication of the superiority of the former.
Activist philosophy refuses to recognize these divisions as fundamental, or to accept the hierarchy they propagate. Its own fundamental duplicity, that of the relational/participative and the qualitative/creatively-self-enjoy- ing, suggests a different schema. The relational/participatory aspect of process could fairly be called political, and the qualitative/creatively-self- enjoying aspect aesthetic. These aspects are not treated as in contradiction or opposition, but as co-occurring dimensions of every event’s relaying of formative potential. They do not parse out in a way that maps onto the existing disciplinary landscape and the associated ways of conventionally bifurcating practices. We saw earlier how the disjunctive/separative and conjunctive/continuing aspects of process played through this duplicity. Another spinoff distinction playing through it for activist philosophy is between the pragmatic and the speculative. Instead of denoting a parting of the ways, however, this distinction is used to express their coming together. Hyphens are in order: aesthetico-political, speculative-pragmatic.
The speculative aspect relates to the character of potential native to the world’s activity, as expressed eventfully in the taking place of change. The pragmatic aspect has to do with how, in the taking-definite-shape of poten- tial in a singular becoming, the relational and qualitative poles co-compose as formative forces. Pragmatic doesn’t mean practical as opposed to specula- tive or theoretical. It is a synonym for composition: “how” processual differentials eventfully play out as co-composing formative forces. This pragmatic playing out is always speculative in the sense that what will come of the process is to some degree an open question until its “final characterization” of itself at its point of culmination. En route, it is specu- latively anticipating what it will have been. That speculation is entirely active. It is the “how” of the experience getting where it’s ultimately going with itself. The co-composing of formative forces constitutes in each exer- cise of experience a novel power of existence: a power to become.
By this thinking, the discipline called art does not have a monopoly on creative composition. And the domain called politics does not have a monopoly on real existential change. There is no less an aesthetic side to politics than there is a political side to art. Practices we call doing politics and practices we call doing art are all integrally aesthetico-political, and