every aesthetico-political activity is integrally speculative-pragmatic. Every mode of practice, however its domain is conventionally classed, is aes- thetico-political/speculative-pragmatic, each in its own inimitable way.
It is here that the constructive questioning begins. It consists in finding ways to understand any given mode of activity in these experiential terms, starting from an ontological primacy of the relational-qualitative and respecting the singularity of the activity’s unfolding—although the word “ontological” no longer fits. Process is only perishingly about being. But it is everywhere and always about powers of existence in becoming. The concerns of activist philosophy are ontogenetic more than ontological (Simondon 2005, 24–26 and passim).
The speculative-pragmatic cast of activist philosophy gives it an in-built affinity with one conventional classification of practices, those sharing its name: “activism.” Activist philosophy, as it is explored in this book, addresses itself as much to activisms in the familiar sense, in any domain in which they stir, as it does to art or philosophical practices in their exist- ing disciplinary frames. The affinity is especially close with activist prac- tices that see themselves as simultaneously cultural and political, as these are already grappling in their own way with the aesthetic-political/specu- lative-pragmatic polarities. This book in large part works from practices that according to traditional classifying schemes would fall into the domain of art or philosophy. But it does this to open art and philosophy to each other, and in a way that opens their opening onto to each other out into a wider activist understanding of the relational-qualitative processes moving through them. The ultimate speculative-pragmatic wager of the book is that if this opening-out succeeds, subsequent takings-up of its tendency might open out of its own practice, that of writing, into other activist arenas in the more usual sense of the word. If the book can be considered to have one central concern, it is this: the politicality of process, in whatever initial midst. The politicality of a pulse of process is the manner of potential it passes on for self-creative successor effect.
With this in view, the book at certain points suggests concepts specifi- cally addressing the taking-up of process. If one exercise of experience bequeaths its activity in residual form for a successor’s taking up, might not that taking up be anticipated, in a fostering way, by how the experi- ence is determined to occur to itself? How can an occasion of experience so determine itself as to leave traces of its activity apt to provide propitious