conditions for the next exercise’s arcing toward the production of its own novelty of successor self-enjoyment? How, from its just-beginnings in bare activity, can an experience modulate its own self-formative tendency’s going beyond itself, toward a potentializing of other events? Since foun- dational clearness and distinctness are (fortunately for creativity) out of the equation, it is a given that no event can lay down the law in a way that essentially predefines its succession. But are there still ways in which an experience can orient what comes? In what way can an event con- structively include formative potential for what lies beyond in its own constitution?
The question of how the beyond of an occasion’s self-enjoyment is effec- tively included in its constitution is the question of importance so central to Whitehead’s philosophy (Whitehead 1968, 1–19). The question of impor- tance is also the question of expression, or what is effectively passed on by an occasion’s passing (Whitehead 1968, 20–41). Importance and expression are not add-ons to experience. They are not “merely” subjective. They are what bridge the subjective and objective aspects of the world, in its rolling effectively on. They are fundamental categories of the world’s becoming. They are ontogenetic factors, constitutive of the politicality of process.
In what follows, the question of how the makeup of an occasion of experience effectively and constructively includes its own beyond is approached through the concept of techniques of existence. A technique of existence is a technique that takes as its “object” process itself, as the speculative-pragmatic production of oriented events of change. Techniques of existence are dedicated to ontogenesis as such. They operate immedi- ately qualitatively-relationally. They make no gesture of claiming “objec- tivity,” nor do they pride themselves on their grasp of common sense. At the same time, they reject being characterized as “merely” subjective. They are inventive of subjective forms in the activist sense: dynamic unities of events unfolding. So implicated are they with the politicality of event- formation that they qualify whatever domain in which their creativity is operative as an occurrent art.
The concept of the diagram is adopted from Peirce and Deleuze to think about what techniques of existence do pragmatically-speculatively. Accord- ing to both Peirce and Deleuze, what they do is abstract. Diagramming is the procedure of abstraction when  it  is  not  concerned  with  reducing the world to an aggregate of objects but, quite the opposite, when it is