attending to their genesis. To abstract in this fuller sense is a technique of extracting the relational-qualitative arc of one occasion of experience—its subjective form—and systematically depositing it in the world for the next occasion to find, and to potentially take up into its own formation. The subjective form of an experience is the dynamic form of how the potentials for change initially found in the bare-active midst come to play out in its occasion. In addition to the initial conditions of given potential, recharges of potentials en route must also be factored in. These are chance intrusions: resistances, obstacles, and enablements. The event of experience self-mod- ulates under pressure from these infusions of activity. To follow itself through to its culmination, the occasion under way must sense their potential on the fly, and creatively take it into its continued unfolding, as added impetus to its becoming.
The diagram as technique of existence is a way of informing the next occasion of these potentials for self-formation: “The greatest point of art consists in the introduction of suitable abstractions” (Peirce 1997, 226). It should not for a moment be forgotten that all of this concerns experience. In experience is to be found the genesis of things. By abstraction, Peirce writes, “I mean such a transformation of our diagrams that characters of one diagram may appear in another as things” (ibid.). What we call objects, considered in the ontogenetic fullness of process, are lived relations between the subjective forms of occasions abstractly nesting themselves in each other as passed-on potentials. They are the inter-given: the systematic form in which potential is relayed from one experience to another. “Objec- tification itself is abstraction” (Whitehead 1985, 25).
The abstract is lived experience. I would almost say that once you have reached lived experience, you reach the most fully living core of the abstract. . . . You can live nothing but the abstract and nobody has lived anything else but the abstract. (Deleuze 1978b)
This, then, is a book about technologies of lived abstraction.
Major issues will have to be left in suspense as this introduction com- pletes its own short-lived arc. One is the concept of the virtual, much maligned in some quarters today. The other is the issue of experience as it applies to nonhuman forms of life—and even to matter itself.
The concept of the virtual is taken up at length in the course of the book under the guise of semblance. Semblance is another way of saying “the experience of a virtual reality.” Which is to say: “the experiential