reality of the virtual.” The virtual is abstract event potential. Semblance is the manner in which the virtual actually appears. It is the being of the virtual as lived abstraction. As used here, “semblance” is free of the con- notations of “illusion” in Adorno’s and Lacan’s uses of the term.
The virtual cannot be understood as a “space” of potential—it is, after all, event potential. It cannot be treated as a realm apart without being entirely denatured as a speculatively-pragmatically useful concept. It is in no way an idealist concept. And it is in no way in opposition with actual- ism. The activist philosophy advanced here is in a way a thoroughgoing actualism, taking the term actual at its etymological word: “in act.” For activist philosophy, everything real gets into the act, and everything in the act is real according to its own mode of activity.
As taken up here, Deleuze’s “virtual” corresponds to Whitehead’s “pure potential.” The activity of pure potential for Whitehead is to make “ingress” into the occasion of experience, as an ontogenetic force collaborating in the dynamic taking-determinate-form of the experience (the event’s “con- crescence”). The activity of potential making ingress is “energizing” (Whitehead 1967a, 182–183). At ingress, the potential arcs through the experience’s energized tending toward an aimed-at fulfillment. The poten- tial runs through the arc of the experience’s unfolding, infolded into it. It infolds in the form of a tendential direction, or vector of self-formation. At ingress, the potential is abstract in that it has yet fully to occur to the experience’s actual tending. As an aim, or, as James would say, a terminus, it is abstract again, because the moment of its fulfillment is the instant when all is processually said and done. The experience self-expires on reaching it, so that it actually will have experienced its potential only as an onward lure—a reaching-toward something that disappears between the closing fingers of the experience even as they grasp it. But it does remain a “something”: not entirely determinate to the end. It’s not over until it’s over, and what is tended-toward can inflect itself up until the final instant. Thus one of the roles of the concept of the virtual, or of pure potential, is to make surprise a universal, constitutive force in the world’s becoming. The universality of surprise as a constitutive force makes the process of the “actualization” through which potential runs an existential drama. Actualization, for Deleuze, is the existentializing “dramatization” of pure, abstract potential (the virtual “Idea”; Deleuze 2004a, 94–116).
The virtual is a limit-concept of process and  experience.  It  comes once aboriginally with ingressive initiative, and again at the end, with the