perishing. It marks the outside limits of the in-act of process and dramati- cally runs through it limit to limit. The virtual limits are conjointly felt in the arcing of the experience toward the novelty of its taking final effect. The virtual is abstractly lived as the experience runs through itself, from one limit of its unfolding to the other.
Sometimes at the culmination of the experience, the drama appears for itself. It is seen. Not actually, if that means corresponding to a sense impres- sion striking the body’s visual apparatus. Actually: as in in act. This appear- ing of the drama of an experience’s self-enjoyment in the act is the semblance. Say you catch sight of a mouse out of the corner of your eye. You don’t so much see the mouse as you feel the arc of its movement with your eyes. You feel the movement continuing out of the immediate past when it was just outside your visual field, coming in. If the movement is felt to be toward you, the feeling of the immediate past includes the imme- diate future of your movement taking off in the opposite direction. You don’t actually “see” the vector of the mouse’s movement, or your own. You immediately experience the dynamic unity of the event—mouse incoming, you outgoing—phasing forward in the form of a felt line of approach. This direct perception of the arc of an event gathering up its immediate past and scurrying it forward toward an immediate postrodent future is an example of a semblance. If the arc of the event is seen, it is seen nonsensuously, as an abstract line (on nonsensuous perception, White- head 1967a, 180–183; on abstract line, Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 9, 197, 280, 296, 496–498). It is seen as in an immediate abstraction in a specious present of fear.
The feeling of seeing the abstract line of the event is a vision-effect. It is an effect of the event-triggering tension inherent to the human-mouse differential. It expresses that differential in an abstract perception of the dynamic unity of the event, as you feel you saw it with your eyes, or perhaps eyed it into feeling. In other words, the dynamic form of the event is perceptually felt, not so much “in” vision as with vision or through vision: as a vision-effect. It is a lived abstraction: an effective virtual vision of the shape of the event, including in its arc the unseen dimensions of its imme- diate past and immediate future. The lived abstraction of the event is an amodal perception, in the nonsensuous shape of a line, of change taking place. It is direct perception of an event. (Deleuze’s “time-image” is the prime example in his work of the appearing of the virtual in what would here be termed a semblance of an event; Deleuze 1989, 68–97 and passim).