Amodal, nonsensuous: these are ways of saying that the effective percep- tion of the shape of the event was not actually in any particular mode of sensory perception. When a semblance is “seen,” it is virtually seen. How else could the virtual actually appear—if not as virtual? Seeing a semblance is having a virtual vision. It is a seeing-through to the virtual in an event of lived abstraction.
There is a curious excess of experience in the event. Since the semblance is amodal, in principle it could have been perceptually-felt in any mode. This means that when it is seen, its appearing virtually in vision betokens a potential variation on the experience as it could have appeared as an other than visual sense-effect, for example as a sound-effect. If you think about it, you probably “actually” heard more of the event than you saw, since a perceptible but as yet unattended-to scurrying preceded the ani- mal’s entering your visual field. There is no reason why the continuing of the event into the immediate future could not have appeared avowedly as a sound-effect. In fact, for some people with a dominance of hearing, it would have. Thus the problem of the virtual is indissociable from the ques- tion of the abstract composition of the senses, in excess of their actual exer- cise. It is primarily in this connection that the concept of the  virtual appears in this book: as a way of thinking about how techniques of exis- tence, in co-composing powers of existence, recompose the senses; and in recomposing the senses, catch an excess reality of the virtual in the act, for diagrammatic relay toward new occasions of experience reinventing how lived abstraction can be felt in our embodied animal life. The aes- thetico-political production of novelty is the excess invention of experien- tial forms of life.
The trick to the productive speculative-pragmatic use of the concept of the virtual is never to separate it from the in-act. It takes a fair bit of con- ceptual calisthenics to achieve this, but it’s well worth the exercise. The key is always to hold to the virtual as a coincident dimension of every event’s occurrence. Again: don’t take this as a dichotomy but as a creative differential, one essentially ingredient to every experience to the extent that every experience is an occasion of lived abstraction.
As a limit-concept, the virtual cannot be thought without paradox—and without working to make the paradox conceptually productive. There are a number of key junctures at which activist philosophy, like any metaphys- ics, must affirmatively make do with paradox. This is an essential moment