in a philosophy’s self-formation. It is the moment a philosophical thought process verges upon the limit of what it can think. To make that limit- experience productive, the thinking must then turn back before it breaks apart like a spaceship entering a black hole. It must inscribe that self-saving inflection in itself, in the form of new concepts or new variations on old concepts. This must be done in a way that does not try to resolve or dismiss the paradox. It is done by taking the paradox seriously as a limit, turning back from it, and taking the necessity of turning back constructively to heart. The limit-experience of paradox turns around into an impulse for continuing the philosophy’s self-creative advance. It has been taken-in as a self-modulation of the thinking-process. It is no longer worried over as a logical contradiction. It has been actively converted into a creative factor that is liminally immanent to the process. It has become a positive factor. This affirmation of noncontradiction as a self-formative necessity is an essen- tial feature of a creative philosophy’s signature activity.
The paradox of the virtual—that it is never actual but always in some way in-act—is closely associated with the paradox of immediate self- reflection entailed by the concept of self-enjoyment discussed earlier. The semblance is the event reflecting itself, directly and immediately, in lived abstraction. There are other paradoxes to be grappled with as well. There is, for example, a paradox of relation for activist philosophy.
Relationality was linked to the notion of the differential just alluded to. It was said that an effect was sparked across differences. The differences concern the mode of activity of what will have been the  formative factors of the coming experience’s occurring to itself. The effect comes between the different factors. The experience takes off from them, as it takes itself into its own event. The event shows itself, for the dynamic unity it has come to be. It does not show the differentials from which it has taken  off into its  own unfolding dynamic unity.  But neither does it efface them. It resolves them into its own appearance. They recede into the flash of its occurrence. They are left behind by the event they condition, which takes off from, so that they show only in that take-off effect.
Take a flash of lightning. Its appearance is conditioned by an electro- magnetic differential. The differential does not show. What shows is the dynamic unity of the differential’s playing out. The flash comes of that playing-out, but shows for itself. The effect lifts off from its conditions into