its own appearance. It is an extra-effect: a dynamic unity that comes in self-exhibiting excess over its differential conditions. In the immediacy of its own event, the event of lightning is absolutely, self-enjoyingly absorbed in the singularity of its own occurrence, and that’s what shows. All occa- sions  of  experience  exhibit  this  “sheer  individuality”  amid  diversity (Whitehead 1967a, 177). An event of experience is a “little absolute” of occurrent self-enjoyment, conditioned yet self-creating (James 1996b, 280). The event transpires between the differential elements that set the condi- tions for it. The electromagnetic gradient field that resolves itself into the occurrence of lightning is a complex field phenomenon. The field enve- lopes the distances between a multitude of elemental particles, bringing them into an energizing tension. The flash is the eventful resolution of the tension. It is how the field shows, in excess to itself, as an extra-effect. The exhibited extra-effect is an expression of that multitude of particles having come together just so, enveloped in tension. The intensive envelopment of the contributing elements constitutes a relational field—but only for the strike of this event. Had the lightning not occurred, it would have been because the contributing factors had not come together in just this way. The relation and the flash of eventful resolution are one. The flash is the being of the relation (Simondon 2005, 63). Had the flash not occurred, the relation would effectively not have been. It would not have resolved itself into an effect. In activist philosophy to be is to be felt: to effectively register.
To be is to be in effect. To be is to get into the act, even though the act is the whole show, and what the performance resolves to show recedes.
The paradox of relation can be summed in the term relation-of-nonrela- tion. Elements contributing to an occurrence come into relation when they come into effect, and they come into effect in excess over themselves. In themselves, they are disparate. If they are in tension, it is precisely as a function of the differential between their positions. It is as a function of their distances from each other. The factors do not actually connect. Their distance is enveloped in a field effect that is one with the tension culmi- nating in the strike of an event. The event effectively takes off from its elements’ contribution to it. As an extra-effect, it does not connect to them as its “cause.” It comes into its own sheer individuality of occurrence: its little-absoluteness. The phrase relation-of-nonrelation is a way of holding together, in the concept of the event, the differential status of its condi- tioning elements and the dynamic unity of their sheer occurrence as a little