absolute. It is a synonym of “conditioned by a disparate multitude and individually-absolutely self-creative” (on relation and disparateness see Simondon 2005, 31, 34–35, 205–209).
The main point to be derived form this is that relation in activist philo- sophical sense is not connective. The paradox of the relation-of-nonrelation excludes what is commonly called interaction or interactivity from qualify- ing as relational (see chapter 2). Extensive use of the concept of relation- of-nonrelation is made at various points in this book (for example, in the discussion of experiential “fusion,” also called synchresis, in chapters 2 and 4). There is also a related point about expression. Expression is always extra-effective. The subject is the subjective form, or dynamic unity, of the extra-effecting event. There is no subject prior to or outside the expression. The being of the subject is the extra-being of the occurrent relation (it is Whitehead’s superject; on extra-being, Deleuze 1990, 7).
If we apply this concept of the relation-of-nonrelation to what occurs between occasions of experience, we are led to treat the experiences them- selves as differentials. The consequence is that occasions of experience cannot be said to actually connect to each other. They may be said to “come together” only in the sense of being mutually enveloped in a more encom- passing event of change-taking-place that expresses their differential in the dynamic form of its own extra-being. That occasions of experience do not actually connect is Whitehead’s doctrine of “contemporary independence” (Whitehead 1967a, 195–196). It means that the relation between different experiences is purely effective: on the creative level of effect. Their relation is the creative playing out of a nonrelation effectively expressing the inex- pungeable difference between the sheer individuality of events of experi- ence, by virtue of which each is a little absolute.3
This might sound lonely. It is certainly not touchy-feely. But Whitehead affirms it as a necessary condition for creativity. The nonrelation of relation is what makes “elbow room” in the world for an experience to come abso- lutely into its own production of novelty, uncramped by the constraint of connectively fitting in (Whitehead 1967a, 195). This preserves the emer- gence of novelty, rather than conformity to the present, as the principle of activity. It also makes all the world expressive. Purely self-expressive. It means the world of change is made of self-creative expression. This has obvious advantages for an aesthetico-political activist philosophy oriented toward a creative autonomy of forms of life.