A further consequence of these considerations is that  different occasions of experience relate only immanently: by their mutual participa- tion in the world’s bare activity, in which they all find themselves in their incoming potential, and into which they perish as they peak. The quasi- chaos of bare activity is immanent to each occasion in the sense that it inaugurally in-forms them of what potentials are astir for their creative taking-in. Bare activity wells up into the event’s self-forming. This leads to another paradox, one concerning the notion of immanence. When an occasion of experience perishes into the world of bare-active potential from which it arose, it contributes its self-formative activity to the world, for potential uptake into a next occasion’s unfolding. It transcends itself back into the immanence out of which it came (Whitehead 1967a, 237; White- head 1968, 167). It makes a bequest to process continuing beyond itself, in the form of its own self-fulfillment.
The notion of non-connective relation encapsulated in the phrase rela- tion-of-nonrelation changes the meaning of “participation.” While at first sight participation may seem to have evaporated, it has actually redoubled. It comes once in the fielding of the multiplicity of contributory elements. The multitude of atmospheric particles—each of which can be considered an occasion of experience in its own right—create the conditions for the strike of lightning by entering into a commotion of mutual interference and resonance. Each actively participates in the production of the whole- field effects that energize the night sky for the coming event. The whole- field effects are a dynamic expression of each contributory element’s remote participation in every other’s activity. The singularity of each ele- ment’s activity is fused in the general field activity whose tension potenti- ates the event, and against which the added novelty of the flash stands out, in the contrasting brightness of its own special activity. The participa- tion of the conditioning elements occurs at a distance: between the ele- ments; across the intervals actually separating them. The event comes strikingly into itself against the background of what has now become its contrasting field of emergence. It sheers off from its field of emergence, into its own absolute individuality of occurrence. The event has partaken of the potential bequeathed it by the general background activity. This sheer partaking of potential is the second participation involved in the concept of the relation-of-nonrelation. Here, participation is partitive (dis- junctive or separative), in occurrent answer to the fusional participation