of the fielding (which is conjunctive in the envelopmental sense of a dynamic mutual inclusion). The event, seen in this striking light, is doubly participatory—but nowhere connective. It is nonlocal. Its conditions are fielded at a distance, and the dazzle of its culmination distances itself from the field of its emergence, in striking contrast to it (on ontogenetic con- trast, see chapter 3).
The concept of the relation-of-nonrelation is that of nonlocality of rela- tion. Relation is nonlocal in two co-implicated senses, corresponding to the two modes of participation involved: 1) the fielding of potential comes of the intervals between elements and 2), the sheering away of the event into the unity of its own occurrence asserts a parturitional interval between itself, as extra-effective being, and the background of potential creating the conditions for its birth. What participation means must be rearticulated in light of the double nonlocality of relation. One of the stakes in that reart- iculation will be the notion of causality. The flash of lightning is condi- tioned, more than it is caused. It self-causes, given its conditions. To say that it is caused would imply a genetic passivity. The paradigm of the relation-of-nonrelation finds activity everywhere, in different modes (in fielding and striking; in general activity and special activity; and most especially, in the bare activity hinging them).
Returning to the paradox of the virtual, that paradox is captured in the continuation of a phrase by James cited earlier: “full of both oneness and manyness, in respects that don’t appear” (James 1996a, 93–94). If the world is made of expression, the implication of James’ phrase is that there are aspects of the world that are expressed without actually appearing. The concept of the semblance is a way of making this paradox productive. It is designed to deal with the complication that, for example, what is seen with or through vision, without actually being seen in vision, is neverthe- less perceptually felt, in effect. The semblance is the form in which what does not appear effectively expresses itself, in a way that must be counted as real. The example given above was the nonsensuous perception of the mouse-line. The mouse-line was composed by a differential participation of the senses in each other. The variety of the contributory sense modes went actively unseen in the abstract sight of the rodent-inflected vectoring of experience. But there is also semblance of sorts in the lightning, even though it is actually seen sensorially, in the sense that the appearance of its dynamic form is accompanied by an actual impingement of light rays