upon the retina. The visibility of the lightning brought the commotion of elemental activity filling the night sky into vision, without it actually showing. It got into the act, but was lost in the show. The flashiness of the lightning was the brilliant tip of an atmospheric iceberg full of both oneness and manyness, whose field respects showily disappeared into the ontogenetic background. The lightning is the appearing tip of a more expansive event that never shows in its entirety. The fullness of the event’s conditioning and occurrence is perceptually felt, in the dynamic form of how what actually appears steals the show. Even if the event’s conditioning elements and culmination are actual, the entirety of the event is virtual: doubly nonlocal, nonsensuously present, registering only in effect, and on all three counts really abstract.
In one semblant way or another, for lightning or for mice, a concept of the effective reality of what doesn’t appear is essential to a philosophy oriented to a thinking of process. The reason is simple: the main things that don’t actually appear—yet are always expressed in some way in that which does appear—are the past and the future. Atmospheric fielding of the elements was the immediate past of the lightning strike. The mouse- line abstractly continued into the immediate future of unwanted encoun- ter or escape. Process—event, change, production of novelty, becoming—all imply duration. They are time concepts. Past, present, future are always co-implicating. They are mutually included in each other. But they include each other as different: as different dimensions of the dynamic unity of the experience’s occurring, which by definition cannot appear with equal billing (that is to say, sensuously). A semblance expresses this essential disparity in the difference that it makes perceptually felt between sensuous experience and nonsensuous reality. A semblance is always an expression of time, though its nonsensuousness gives it an aftertaste of eternity. The classic example is the lived semblance of the world of childhood that Proust’s madeleine triggered into appearing without actually appearing. Although actually unappearing, the semblance of the past was really felt, with a self-creating spontaneity that imposed it as a fact of experience. The semblance is a lived expression of the eternal matter-of-fact that is time’s passing.
Paul Klee speaks of the task of composing semblances—making dimen- sions of experience that don’t appear appear nevertheless in the dynamic unity of an expressive act—as what defines aesthetic activity: