It is not easy to arrive at a conception of a whole which is constructed from parts belonging to different dimensions. And not only nature, but also art . . . is such a whole. For . . . we lack the means of discussing in its constituent parts, an image which possesses simultaneously a number of dimensions. . . . But, in spite of all these difficulties, we must deal with the constituent parts in great detail. . . . Our courage may fail us when we find ourselves faced with a new part leading in a completely different direction, into new dimensions, perhaps into remoteness where the recollection of previously explored dimensions may easily fade. To each dimen- sion, as, with the flight of time, it disappears from view, we should say: now you are becoming Past. But perhaps later at a critical—perhaps fortunate—moment we may meet again on a new dimension, and once again you may become Present. (Klee 1950, 15, 17)
To compose, we must deal with the “constituent parts”—contributory factors of activity—in great detail. But the more detail with which we grasp them, the more apt they are to fade into a remoteness where they recede into nonrelation. Yet they may also advance into new experiential dimen- sions, forwarding experience into new directions for composition. The diagram, as explained above, is a word that activist philosophy uses to name a speculative-pragmatic procedure for navigating this complexity of experience’s passing, taking special aim on the “critical” moments. These are the junctures where one moment of experience’s passing passes into another, informing it of (in-forming it with) the potential to become again: technique of existence. Klee’s reference to art and nature in this connection implies that they are both compositional realities, that their compositions involve a diagrammatic experience of becoming, and that this becoming of experience is aesthetic in its multidimensionality.
This brings us to the final question, that of experience in nonhuman forms of life, and in nonliving matter itself. It was already asserted that the world was made of expression. In this context, this is the same as saying that the world is made of experience. If the world is made of experience, there is perception everywhere in it. For activist philosophy, the question of the nonhuman revolves around the question of nonhuman perception. In what way can we say that what we have a tendency to separate out as “dumb matter” in fact perceives and is therefore, by the precepts of activist philosophy, experientially self-creative?
This question is only tangentially touched on in this book (for more, see Massumi forthcoming). It will have to suffice to say that Whitehead defines  perception  as  “taking  account”  (Whitehead  1967a,  234–235;