Whitehead 1967b, 69–70). Taking account means an event inflecting the arc of its becoming as a function of its feeling the influence of other events, either in its initial conditions or en route. An electron is an occasion of experience for Whitehead. It “takes account” of the electromagnetic field of the nucleus of the atom in the dynamic form of its orbit and in its quantum character (the unity of the dynamic form expressed as its orbit and energy level). The electron registers the “importance” of its fellow creatures of the nucleus, and expresses it in the dynamic unity of its own pathmaking. The trees along a river take account of the surrounding moun- tains in how they are able to take in the rain washing down from them, negotiating with their shadows for their growth, or availing themselves of the mountain’s protection from the wind. The life of a tree is a “society” of occasions of experience whose taking-account of other events—weather events, geological events, the earth’s gravitation, the sun’s rising and set- ting—contributes to a continuing growth pattern. Tree rings are one of the ways in which this growing lived abstraction is seen for itself. Our taking in the pattern at a glance is a semblance of a life. But even outside any encounter with human perception, the electron, the mountains, the tree involve perceptions. They are perceptions in themselves: they are how they take account, in their own self-formative activity, of the world of activity always and already going on around.4
Whenever we see, whenever we perceptually feel, whenever we live abstraction, we are taking in nonhuman occasions of experience. We are inheriting their activity, taking it into our own special activity as a human form of life: as a society of occasions of experience contributing to a con- tinuing growth pattern it pleases us to call our human self. What we per- ceptually feel to be our “humanity” is a semblance of that life. Like all semblances, it is created through specific techniques of existence, in this case, of historic proportions. And like all semblances, it appears most for itself at the moment of its perishing (Foucault 1970, 422). The “human” is a singularly historical virtual reality appearing through the animal body it also pleases us to call human. “Humanity” is a growth ring expressing a certain episode in the historic route of the collective life  of  our animal body.
Like all animal forms of life, the human has a technique of existence whose role is to selectively channel the nonhuman activity always going on all around into its own special activity. That technique of existence is