the body itself. The senses are procedures of the body as technique of existence. The body is the seat of bare activity: the region of indistinction between the human and matter where something doing is always already just stirring, before it starts to take definitive experiential form. We do not see the electrons traveling down our optic nerve. We see what our body makes of their activity. We take their activity into our own, producing an event of seeing—certainly a novelty for an electron. In the arcing of the event toward the production of its novel outcome, physical matter, life matter in general, and human life-matter are actively indistinguishable. The body is the intensive milieu of active-matter indistinction in the midst of which a human experience comes to finds itself.
Experience always invents. Every perception is a creative activity cul- minating in the production of an event of change. A perception is its own event. Its “content” is one with the dynamic form of its coming to fulfillment. What a perception invents is essentially itself. It is self-cre- ative. There is nothing “outside” to which it corresponds or that it reflects or represents. All perception is immanent—in the case of animal life, to the bodily milieu of its own becoming. When we see an “object” “out there” we are seeing a semblance of our own life’s passing, immanent to its own occurrence. If we focus exclusively on the chunkiness of the object as it slothfully presents itself in the flow of change, we are living the abstraction that the world comes in fundamentally inertial  chunks  of what we are habitually tempted to call matter as opposed to life, or what we like to think of as the concrete as opposed to the abstract (Manning and Massumi, forthcoming a). This is Whitehead’s “fallacy of misplaced concreteness,” which he considers the bane not only of most approaches to philosophy, but also of classical science, not to mention common sense (Whitehead 1967b, 51–52, 58). Deleuze restates it in the following way: “The opposite of the concrete is not the abstract, it is the discrete” (Deleuze, 1978a). The discrete: the slothful just-being-there of an inactive chunk of matter.
“In truth, the notion of the self-contained particle of matter, self-suffi- cient within its local habitation, is an abstraction.” (Whitehead 1968, 138). There is, in bare matter of fact, “no possibility of a detached, self-contained local existence” (ibid.).
The doctrine I am maintaining is that neither physical nature nor life can be under- stood unless we fuse them together as essential factors in the composition of “really