real” things whose interconnections and individual characters constitute the uni- verse. . . . In conceiving the function of life in an occasion of experience, we must discriminate the actualized data presented by the antecedent world, and the non- actualized potentialities5 which lie ready to promote their fusion into a new unity of experience, and the immediacy of self-enjoyment which belongs to the creative fusion of these data with those potentialities. (Whitehead 1968, 150–151)
Such is lived abstraction. “Abstraction expresses nature’s mode of inter- action and is not merely mental. When it abstracts, thought is merely conforming to nature—or rather, it is exhibiting itself as an element in nature” (Whitehead 1985, 26). As for the body, “it is part of the external world, continuous with it,” made of the same “matter” (or processual matter of fact). It partakes of the same general activity:
In fact, [the body] is just as much part of nature anything else there—a river, or a mountain, or a cloud. Also, if we are fussily exact, we cannot define where a body begins and where external nature ends. Consider one definite molecule. It is part of nature. It has moved about for millions of years. Perhaps it started from a distant nebula. It enters the body; it may be as a factor in some edible vegetable; or it passes into the lungs as part of the air. At what exact point as it enters the mouth, or as it is absorbed through the skin, is it part of the body? At what exact moment, later on, does it cease to be part of the body? Exactness is out of the question. (Whitehead 1968, 21)
The only thing that is certain is that the body will have partaken. It will have taken something of the world’s general activity into its own special activity of expressing potential in life-advancing change taking place. Matter, “considered in abstraction of the notion of life,” leads to an impasse. “We are left with the notion of an activity in which nothing is effected” (Whitehead 1968, 148). Nothing doing. “Vacuous actuality” (Whitehead 1978, 29). Inactivist philosophy.
Ultimately, the thinking of speculative pragmatism that is activist philosophy belongs to nature. Its aesthetico-politics compose a nature philosophy. The occurrent  arts  in  which  it  exhibits  itself  are  politics of nature.
The one-word summary of its relational-qualitative goings on: ecology. Activist philosophy concerns the ecology of powers of existence. Becom- ings in the midst. Creative change taking place, self-enjoying, humanly or no, humanly and more (on the more-than-human, Manning forthcoming a).