contained consciousness (James 1996a, 25). What is radical about radical empiricism is that there are not on the one hand objective-transitions- leading-to-functional-ends and, on the other, experiences-and-percepts corresponding to them in the subject. Classically, objects and their associ- ated operations are in the world while percepts registering them are in the subject. What James is saying, by contrast, is that both are in the transition. Things and their experience are together in transition. There is no oscilla- tion in the theory between extremes of objectivism and subjectivism because the object and subject fall on the same side of a shared movement. The question is what distinction their movement makes, according to which they will fall on the same side. The answer will be surprising to those who equate pragmatism with instrumentalism.
James uses the simple example of describing a building to a skeptical friend (James 1996a, 54–56). There is nothing you can say that can verify your description. There is no sure way for your friend to know that you’re not being inaccurate or deceitful unless you walk together to the building and you point out convergences between what you had said and what you both are now experiencing. The truth of the experience is the fulfilled expectation. So far, it’s all pretty pedestrian. But for James, the demonstra- tive pointing-out is less an external referencing of an object by a subject than an indexing of two subjects to the same phase in the “ambulatory” movement. The demonstrative puts the subjects in sync, as two poles of the same fulfillment. It is less indicative of an object than performative of a sharing. The object does not figure “in itself.” It figures differentially, as approached from disjunct perspectives (skepticism and the desire to con- vince) linked in a moving-toward. The object figures again as bringing those subjective poles of the movement into phase. Their difference of approach is resolved in the collective ability to point and say, “That’s it!” The demonstrative exclamation marks the operative inclusion of the object in the movement, as a trigger of its elements’ entering into phase. The “object” is an exclamation point of joint experience.1 In that punctuating role, it is “taken up” by the movement. The object, along with the con- cerned “subjects,” figure as differential poles integrating into a unity of movement. The unity lasts as long as its demonstrative performance. It is an event: a rolling of subjective and objective elements into a mutual participation co-defining the same dynamic.
In the aftermath of the event, the unity resolves back into differentials, and the movement continues, relatively de-defined again: it is possible that