disagreement will arise later about what was demonstrated at that point. The movement may then retrace its steps to repeat the demonstration, exclaiming a different integration and a redefinition. The object is taken up by the movement again but in a new capacity, as an object no longer only of skepticism but of dispute. Whether the object is strictly the “same” as taken up differentially by the movement the second time as it was the first is not a question of concern to pragmatism. What is of interest is that unfolding differentials phase in and out of integrating events in which they figure as dynamically interlinked poles—that there is a punctuated oneness in a manyness ongoing.
Once the emphasis is placed on the transitional-definitional nature of the “terminus,” it is clear that the identity of the event’s elements cannot predate their integration. What the object will definitely have been, and what precisely will have been role of the subjects, is clear only in retrospect after each integration—by which time they are already in transit to another terminus. Already all over again in the making. James will go so far as to say that what constitutes a subject and an object varies. An element that was a subject at one terminus may be taken up as an object in the next, or function as both at the same time (James 1996a, 13–15, 56–57). This is obvious when you remember that as a perceiver you are always perceivable by another, in whose experience you figure as an object. Or that an object may be retaken up as a memory, crossing from objective to subjective status (James 1996a, 61).
Subject and object are given operative definitions by pragmatism. They are not placed in any kind of metaphysical contradiction or opposition. They are defined additively (James 1996a, 9), according to their multiple takings-up in events, in a continuing movement of integration and decou- pling, phasing and dephasing, whose dynamic takes precedence over their always provisional identities. Subject and object are grasped directly as variations—not only of themselves but of each other. Their open-ended ability to cross over into each other is the very “stuff” of the world (James 1996a, 4). As it is of experience. The phrase “the world of experience” is a redundancy.
These Jamesian moves already undermine any equation of pragmatism with a “naïve” instrumentalism, turning it decisively toward a philosophy of the world’s continuing self-invention. This turn to a creative philosophy allies pragmatism with Bergson and Whitehead more than to any other currents.2 In places, James makes the turn even more sharply. Ninety-nine