times out of a hundred, he writes, the ideas we hold true are “unterminated perceptually,” and “to continue . . . is the substitute for knowing in the completed sense” (James 1996a, 69). A usefully terminated experience in which the identity of the elements in play definitively crystallize into a clearly objective or  subjective  role  even  for  an  exclamatory  moment is the exception. The world usually only brinks on definitive self-punctuations.
Ether-waves and your anger, for example, are things in which my thoughts will never perceptually terminate, but my concepts of them lead me to their very brink, to the chromatic fringes and to the hurtful words and deeds which are their really next effects. (James 1996a, 73)
The trigger-object is rarely arrived at as a terminus. The world (experience) normally contents itself with brinking on “really next effects.” A terminus is like a basin of attraction that draws you toward it, as by a gravitational pull, but no sooner spins you off, as by a centrifugal force. The world doesn’t stop at your anger. An angry word or deed snowballs into an unfolding drama sweeping you and all around you along. You are always really living in a centrifugal hurtle to a next effect.
We live, as it were, upon the front edge of an advancing wave-crest, and our sense of a determinate direction in falling forward is all we cover of the future of our path. It is as if a differential quotient should be conscious and treat itself as an adequate substitute for a traced-out curve. Our experience . . . is of variations of rate and of direction, and lives in those transitions more than in the journey’s end. (James 1996a, 69)
Rather than arriving at end-objects, or fulfilling objective ends, we are carried by wavelike tendencies, in a rollover of experiences perpetually substituting for each other. “We live forwards,” but since we have always already rolled on, “we understand backwards” (James 1996a, 238): partici- pation precedes cognition. This is the sense of James’s famous saying that we don’t run because we are afraid. We are afraid because we run.
Since we are always at the brink, we are too busy rolling on to doubt the running reality. The question of the truth or falsehood of the crests and troughs through which we pass—whether they are “merely” subjec- tive, mere appearances or illusions—doesn’t even arise.
These [transitional] termini . . . are self-supporting. They are not “true” of anything else, they simply are, are real. They “lean on nothing.” . . . Rather, does the whole fabric of experience lean on them. (James 1996a, 202)