In the end (or more precisely, in the never-ending) the pragmatic truth is not fundamentally defined by a functional fit between a will and a way, or a propositional correspondence between subjective perceptions and a self-same object. Rather, it has to do with a “self-supporting” of experience brinking, on a roll to really-next-effects. What we experience is less our objects’ confirmed definitions, or our own subjectivity, than their going-on together—their shared momentum. Being swept up by the world consti- tutes a lived belief in it: an immediate, moving, embodied, participatory belief.3 Belief is not propositional (“that is [what it is]”). It is the undoubt- able rush of fear, anger, or expectation whose object has already zoomed past before it is fully defined (“so that was it!”). “Definitely felt transitions
. . . are all that knowing can possibly contain or signify” (James 1996a, 56). Riding the wave, we are in “a that which is not yet any definite what, tho’ ready to be all sorts of whats; full of both oneness and manyness, but in respects that don’t appear” (James 1996a, 93–94). This, James writes,
is what I call pure experience. It is only virtually or potentially either object or subject as yet. For the time being, it is plain, unqualified actuality, a simple that. (James 1996a, 23)
It is only when our idea [our expectation of perceiving something] has actually terminated in  the  percept  that  we  know  “for  certain”  that  from  the  beginning it was truly cognitive of that. We were virtual knowers before we were certified to have been its actual knowers, by the percept’s retroactive validating power. (James 1996a, 68).
The surprise answer to the question of what distinction subjects’ and objects’ shared movement makes is virtual-actual. “As yet” (on the crest) subject and object are undetermined. They are only virtually subject or object. Actually, they are what they will have been. The subject and the object fall into definition on the same side of the actual-virtual distinction: the actual side. That is, they fall in retroactively (in the trough). Their actual definition is a kind of experiential doppler effect immediately reg- istering their already having passed, in the momentary calm before the next wave rolls up. Subjects and objects are not preconstituted foundations for purposive movement yielding useful effects. They are effects: move- ment-effects, directly registered passings-on that are also phasings-out.
How can James turn subjects and objects into phasings or effects and also say that we have an immediate, undoubtable belief in the world? Because even if you do not have a founding relation between a subject and