an object, you still have an effective, if passing, relation of experience to itself. “Thoughts are made of the same stuff things are” (James 1996a, 37); “The starting point becomes a knower and the terminus an object meant or known” (James 1996a, 57; emphasis added); “The first experience knows the last one” (James 1996a, 58) retrospectively. Thought and thing, subject and object, are not separate entities or substances. They are irreducibly temporal modes of relation of experience to itself. The wave crest is an inter- ference pattern between the forward momentum, or prospective tending, rolling on from its starting point in a last terminus toward an already anticipated end-object, and the backwash of the really-next-effect by virtue of which the starting point retroactively becomes a knowing subject. In experience, what goes along comes around. The world rolls in on itself, over its own expectations of reaching an end. It snowballs, start to termi- nus. The world is self-supporting in the sense that it feeds on its own momentum, folding its movement around on itself, always “additively” (James 1996a, 110), the end of every roll a return to the beginning, only more so: further on, spinning off virtual subjects and objects, like flakes in its actual wake. Everything in the world of experience is contained in this self-augmenting movement. There is no opposition or contradiction, only the productive paradox of a self-contained becoming. A becoming-more and -many through the same momentum: many-more one-ward.
This brings us to James’s pivotal definition of what constitutes a radical empiricism, and when coupled with pragmatism, precludes it being an instrumentalism: the primacy of relation. The world revolves around its momentous relation to itself. Relations, James insists, are as real as the terms in relation (subjects, objects, sense data). And relations are them- selves experienced.
The relations that connect experience must themselves be experienced relations, and any kind of relation experienced must be accounted as “real” as anything else in the system. (James 1996a, 42)
The parts of experience hold together from next to next by relations that are them- selves part of experience. The directly apprehended universe needs, in short, no extraneous trans-empirical connective support, but possesses in its own right a concatenated or continuous structure. (James 1978, 173)
An example: giving. Our commonsense way of thinking about a relation like giving would be to analyze it into its terms, or decompose it into parts, and then put it all back together again. In this case, you decompose the