giving into a giver (A), a gift (B), and a recipient (C). In theory, you should be able to reconnect A to B (giver to gift) and B to C (gift to recipient) and get the giving again. But what you actually get is two successive holdings: A holding B, then C holding B, with nothing to hold the holdings together. What holds the holdings together isn’t in the terms, or their part-to-part connections. What holds the holdings together is a oneness-in-manyness of a moving on. It is what runs through the parts and their holdings, without itself being held; what is unmissably experienced without being seen. That—the relation—is not in the giver. Nor is it in the gift. Nor the recipient. It is what runs through them all, holding them together in the same dynamic. It is integrally many things: “concatenated and continu- ous.” It is whatever tendency impels or compels the giving. It is the desire to please another, or to bind another to oneself. It is an obligation, which obliges in return. For a giving is never solitary. It calls for more. It is serial, ongoing. It is in the conventions that define the timing and sequence, what gift is desirable or appropriate, and when. It is also in the sensual qualities of the gift (unromantically, its “sense data”). It is the fragrance or the sparkle. It is all of these things, folded into and around each other to form an experiential envelope, a field, “full of oneness and manyness in respects that don’t appear”—incorporeal medium holding the gift up for the giving, and holding the successive holdings to the same event. Holding-up/hold- ing-together, integral unseen medium of suspension: that does it.
The suspension-event is an incorporeal envelope of sociality. The gift relation is not fully personal or objective. It is immediately social—in a way singularly independent from the particular nature of the terms in social relation. The giver or recipient may be male or female, young or old, or what not. The gift may be flowers or diamonds, or what not. The that holding the holdings together is a multiplicity of what-nots, a ready-to-be- all-kinds. The relation is a suspension of the particular definitions of the terms in relation. If it is as real as they are, its reality is of a different order: an implicate order, of ready-to-be-things folded eventfully into each other. If the implicate order is of the order of an event, then like every event, really-next-effects will unfold from its happening: to be continued.
Again, “really-next-effect” means “transition takes precedence.” The gift is defined as the object of the giving by the event of the offer’s passing unbroken into an acceptance. Reciprocally, the giver and the recipient are defined as the subjects of the giving by the object’s eventfully having