passed. The radically empirical point is that the all-around lived medium, or experienced envelope of relation, is a ready-to-be (virtual) coexistence of terms held in a nondecomposable unity of movement that determines what they will have been in passing. That translates into the conceptual rule of thumb that the terms in relation belong to a different order than their relation. Terms in relation, parts of the whole, serially unfold over the course of events. But they do so by virtue of an infolding, or implicate, order holding them, wholing them, fielding them in the same event. The logic of coexistence is different from the logic of separation. The logic of belonging is different from the logic of being a part.
This means that to get the whole picture (including the real, suspended ways it doesn’t appear), you have to operate with both logics simultane- ously: the conjunctive and the disjunctive. “Radical empiricism is fair to both the unity and the disconnection” (James 1996a, 47). It translates metaphysical issues of truth and illusion, subject-object correspondence, into issues of continuity and discontinuity.
These are basically pragmatic issues: when and how to make a break, and in making a break field a relation, and to what really-next-effect. (You can never take back a gift. It incorporeally binds you to another, and in so doing irreversibly cuts into your having been apart.)
Together, radical empiricism and the pragmatic theory of truth lead to an odd constructivism in which experience is at the same time self- standing and self-contained, and always to be invented according to passing logics of break and relation. For it is always only in passing that things prove useful: as provisionally as ether waves, as ephemerally as your anger, as corruptibly as a gift. Things’ only a priori function is of becoming.
Approaching things this way saves you fussing over the cognitive status of your experience. Disbelieving, are you? Feeling a tad illusionary? Don’t worry. Everything is as real as its next-effect. Just concentrate on the break and relation that will make a next-effect really felt. In any such event, as you always are, you are already redundantly implicated in the world of experience.
You do not run purposively through the world because you believe in it. The world, surprisingly, already runs you through. And that, really felt, is your belief in it. Virtual participation, really, brinking on truly, precedes