art. We often don’t even call them interesting in any strong sense—more like entertaining. If “Please interact” were enough to define a category, it would be gaming, not art. Beyond gaming in the strict sense, there is a gaming paradigm that has moved into other domains.1 You see it massively in communications but also in marketing, design, training, education. Places where it becomes serious and useful. Interactivity can make the useful less boring and the serious more engaging. It is performance- enhancing. It’s big business. It rarely has pretensions to art. This makes the question of what it is in interactive art that makes it art all the more insistent.
V2 So then how do you approach that question—particularly in a way that allows you to define what distinguishes interactive art from traditional arts?
BM I personally don’t see how the question can be approached without returning to the question of form. And that requires reconnecting with aesthetics. That’s not a popular position in new media art. There is a wide- spread attitude that aesthetic categories belong to the past. Many people would say they just don’t apply, for the reasons you listed: interaction is two-way, it’s participatory, and it evokes a behavior rather than displaying a form. I’ve heard it said in no uncertain terms that form is dead. That we just can’t think or speak in those terms any more. It’s almost an injunction. I don’t mean to say it’s not a serious question. It’s identifying a real problem. How do you speak of form when there is the kind of openness of outcome that you see in a lot of new media art, where participant response determines what exactly happens? When the artwork doesn’t exist, because each time that it operates the interaction produces a varia- tion, and the variations are in principle infinite? When the artwork pro- liferates? Or when it disseminates, as it does when the work is networked, so that the interaction is distributed in time and space and never ties back together in one particular form?
To begin with, you have to get past the idea that form is ever fixed, that there is any such thing as a stable form—even in traditional aesthetic practices like figurative painting, or even in something as mundane as decorative motif. The idea that there is such a thing as fixed form is actu- ally as much an assumption about perception as it is an assumption about art. It assumes that vision is not dynamic—that it is a passive, transparent