registering of something that is just there, simply and inertly. If vision is stable, then to make art dynamic you have to add movement. But if vision is already dynamic, the question changes. It’s not an issue of movement or no movement. The movement is always there, in any case. So you have to make distinctions between kinds of movement, kinds of experiential dynamics, and then ask what difference they make.
V2 In what way is there movement in vision? Your bringing up decorative motif in this connection makes me think of an author of interest to both of us, the philosopher of art Susanne Langer. Are you referring to her theo- ries of perceptual movement in art?
BM Exactly. Langer reminds us that we see things we don’t actually see. We all know it, but we tend to brush it off by calling it an illusion, as if something is happening that isn’t real and doesn’t have anything impor- tant to say about experience. But isn’t “something happening” the very definition of real? The question is what exactly does the inconvenient reality that we see things we don’t actually see say about the nature of perception? Well, it changes everything. Langer starts from the simple example of the kind of spiraling, vegetal motifs you see in a lot of tradi- tional decorative arts. She states the obvious: we don’t see spirals, we see spiraling. We see a movement that flows through the design. That’s what it is to see a motif. The forms aren’t moving, but we can’t not see movement when we look at them. That could be another definition of real: what we can’t not experience when we’re faced with it. Instead of calling it an illusion—this movement we can’t actually see but can’t not see either— why not just call it abstract? Real and abstract. The reality of this abstrac- tion doesn’t replace what’s actually there. It supplements it. We see it with and through the actual form. It takes off from the actual form. The actual form is like a launching pad for it. We wouldn’t see the movement without the design actually being there, but if we only saw the actual design we wouldn’t be seeing what it is we’re seeing—a motif. The actual form and the abstract dynamic are two sides of the same experiential coin. They’re inseparable. They’re fused, like two dimensions of the same reality. We’re seeing double.
V2 And that’s different from seeing an object—say, the leaves themselves that suggested the motif? Weren’t you were saying that this tells us some- thing about the nature of perception?