BM Yes, the next question is if the same thing happens in so-called natural perception of objects. It’s clear that it does. For example, to see an object is to see volume. We don’t infer volume. We see the voluminousness of an object, directly and immediately, without having to think about it. We don’t say to ourselves, “Let’s see, there’s a surface facing me, I would wager that there is a backside to it, which means it’s a 3D object and therefore I could walk around it and see and touch the other side.” We don’t say this to ourselves because we don’t say anything to ourselves. We just see. We see what’s before us directly and immediately as an object. We see the “backedness” of it without actually seeing around to the other side. That’s precisely what makes it a perception of an object, rather than a deduction about a surface. We are really but implicitly—abstractly—seeing the object’s  voluminousness.  The  perceived shape  of  an  object is this abstract experience of volume. Part of it, anyway, because we also directly and immediately see an object’s weightiness. We see weightiness through texture, for example. Voluminousness and weightiness are not in them- selves visible. But we can’t not see them when we see an object. In fact, we see them in the form of the object. Form is full of all sorts of things that it actually isn’t—and that actually aren’t visible. Basically, it’s full of poten- tial. When we see an object’s shape we are not seeing around to the other side, but what we are seeing, in a real way, is our capacity to see the other side. We’re seeing, in the form of the object, the potential our body holds to walk around, take another look, extend a hand and touch. The form of the object is the way a whole set of active, embodied potentials appears in present experience: how vision can relay into kinesthesia or the sense of movement, how kinesthesia can relay into touch. The potential we see in the object is a way our body has of being able to relate to the part of the world it happens to find itself in at this particular life’s moment. What we abstractly see when we directly and immediately see an object is lived relation—a life dynamic.
Once again, we don’t see it instead of what we think of as being the actual form of the object. We’re seeing double again. But this time, we’re seeing the actual form “with and through” that set of abstract potentials. The reason we’re directly seeing an object and not just a surface is because we can’t not see what we’re seeing without also experiencing voluminous- ness and weightiness—the object’s invisible qualities. Seeing an object is seeing  through  to  its  qualities.  That’s  the  doubleness:  if  you’re  not