qualitatively seeing what isn’t actually visible, you’re not seeing an object, you’re not seeing objectively. “Objectification itself is abstraction. . . . Abstraction expresses nature’s mode of interaction and is not merely mental” (Whitehead 1985, 25–26). Deleuze drives the point home: “the abstract is lived experience. . . . you can live nothing but the abstract” (Deleuze 1978).
Certain currents in embodied perception take this to heart. Alva Noë, for example, concludes that all visual perception is “virtual” (Noë 2004, 50, 66–67, 134–135). Seeing, he says, is a kind of action. Only, I would say, without the actual action—with the action appearing in potential.  We never just register what’s actually in front of our eyes. With every sight we see imperceptible qualities, we abstractly see potential, we implicitly see a life dynamic, we virtually live relation. It’s just a kind of shorthand to call it an object. It’s an event. An object’s appearance is an event, full of all sorts of virtual movement. This is real movement, because something has hap- pened: the body has been capacitated. It’s been relationally activated. It is alive in the world, poised for what may come. That is also “seen”—there’s a sense of aliveness that accompanies every perception. We don’t just look, we sense ourselves alive. Every perception comes with its own “vitality affect,” to use a term of Daniel Stern’s (Stern 1985, 53–61; Stern 2010).
That’s why we see movement in a motif. The form naturally poises the body for a certain set of potentials. The design calls forth a certain vitality affect—the sense we would have, for example, of moving our eyes down a branch of rustling leaves, and following that movement with our hands. But that life dynamic comes without the potential for it to be actually lived. It’s the same lived relation as when we “actually” see leaves, it’s the same potential. But it’s purely potential. We can’t live it out. We can only live it in—in this form—implicitly. It’s like the motif has taken the abstrac- tion that is the leaf and made it appear even more abstractly. So abstractly, it can’t go any further than this appearance. The body is capacitated, but the capacity has nowhere else to go. It’s in suspense. Langer calls this a “semblance” (1953, 45–68 and passim). The concept also appears in strik- ingly similar ways in Walter Benjamin’s early work on art and aliveness (Benjamin 1996b, 1996c).
A semblance takes the abstraction inherent to object perception and carries it to a higher power. It does this by suspending the potentials pre- sented. Suspending the potentials makes them all the more apparent by