holding them to visual form. The relays to touch and kinesthesia will not take place. These potentials can only appear and can only appear visually. The event that is the full-spectrum perception is and will remain virtual. A life dynamic is presented but virtually, as pure visual appearance.
This produces another level of vitality affect. It feels different to see a semblance. Even in something so banal as a decorative motif, there is the slightly uncanny sense of feeling sight see the invisible. The action of vision, the kind of event it is, the virtual dimension it always has, is high- lighted. It’s a kind of perception of the event of perception in the percep- tion. We experience a vitality affect of vision itself. This is like the doubleness of perception I was talking about becoming aware of itself. A kind of direct and immediate self-referentiality of perception. I don’t mean self-reflexiv- ity, which would be thinking about a perception as from a distance or as mediated by  language.  This  is  a  thinking  of  perception  in perception, in the immediacy of its occurrence, as it is felt—a thinking-feeling, in visual form.
Semblances, by whatever name—pure appearances, self-abstracting per- ceptions, thinking-feelings—occur in so-called natural perception. That’s a misleading category if ever there was one—as if seeing a leaf motif were somehow less natural than seeing a leaf. Still, there is an important differ- ence. The perception of any object also involves the thinking-feeling of a semblance. It’s just that the semblance is backgrounded. An object is a semblance to the extent that we think-feel things like its backedness, volume, and weight. But that thinking-feeling slips behind the flow of potential action that the objectness suggests. We let the vitality affect, the “uncanny” apprehension of the qualitative dimension, pass unnoticed. Instead, we orient toward the instrumental aspect of the actions and reac- tions that the perception affords. The self-reflexivity of the experience is backgrounded. The sense of relational aliveness disappears into the living. The “uncanniness” of the way in which the object appears as the object it is—as if it doubled itself with the aura of its own qualitative nature—dis- appears into a chain of action. We live out the perception, rather than living it in. We forget that a chair, for example, isn’t just a chair. In addi- tion to being one it looks like one. The “likeness” of an object to itself, its immediate doubleness, gives every perception a hint of déjà vu. That’s the uncanniness. The “likeness” of things is a qualitative fringe, or aura to use a totally unpopular word, that betokens a moreness to life. It stands in the