perception for perception’s passing. It is the feeling in this chair of past and future chairs “like” it. It is the feeling in this chair that life goes on. It presents, in the object, the object’s relation to the flow not of action but of life itself, its dynamic unfolding, the fact that it is always passing through its own potential. It’s how life feels when you see it can seat you. In Antonio Damasio’s terms, it’s the “feeling of what happens,” that back- ground feeling of what it’s “like” to be alive, here and now, but having been many elsewheres and with times to come.2 Art brings that vitality affect to the fore.
All of this suggests a way of bringing art and “natural” perception together while still having a way of distinguishing them. In art, we see life dynamics “with and through” actual form. Or rather, we always see rela- tionally and processually in this way, but art makes us see that we see this way. It is the technique of making vitality affect felt. Of making an explicit experience of what otherwise slips behind the flow of action and is only implicitly felt. Of making the imperceptible appear. In everyday percep- tion, the same thing occurs. There is an artfulness in every experience. Art and everyday perception are in continuity with one another. But in every- day experience, the emphasis is different. It is all a question of emphasis, an economy of foregrounding and backgrounding of dimensions of experi- ence that always occur together and absolutely need each other. Art fore- grounds the dynamic, ongoingly relational pole. Everyday experience foregrounds the object-oriented, action-reaction, instrumental pole. That pole comes across as stable because it offers our action perches— ”affordances” in J. J. Gibson’s vocabulary (1986, 36, 137–138). We attend to the perchiness, and let the other side of that same coin, the passing- relation side, slip behind the use we can exact from the perception. Art brings back out the fact that all form is a full-spectrum dynamic form of life. There is really no such thing as fixed form—which is another way of saying that the object of vision is virtual. Art is the technique for making that necessary but normally unperceived fact perceptible, in a qualitative perception that is as much about life itself as it is about the things we live by. Art is the technique of living life in—experiencing the virtuality of it more fully. Living it more intensely. Technique of existence (chapter 3).
This also suggests a way of dealing with the question of interaction in art, and why the question of whether or not it is art comes up so insistently. Despite the term interactivity, the emphasis is rarely on the dynamic form