of the experience in all its dimensions. It is the form of the technical object that is emphasized, for what it affords. The emphasis is on the perches it offers for a relaying from action to reaction and back again. It is supposed to be all about social relation, but the dynamic form of the experience tends to get reduced to the instrumental affordance as concretized in the actual form of the technical object. It gets reified in an objective function. The technical object is action-packed. But the sense of action is con- strained, subordinated to functional circuits of action-reaction that are to a large extent predetermined to respond to what are taken to be existing needs or wants.
Interaction is just that: a going back and forth between actions, largely reduced to instrumental function. The lesson of the semblance is that lived reality of what is happening is so much more, qualitatively. It includes an “uncanny” moreness to life as an unfolding lived relation in a world whose every  moment  is  intensely  suffused  with  virtuality—an  abstractly  felt “backside,” or voluminousness, of life itself. When what is concentrated on are instrumentalized action-reaction circuits, what gets foregrounded is the element of nextness in the flow of action. The voluminousness of the experience, its all-aroundness and going-for-moreness, shrinks from feeling. That is why I make a distinction between interactivity and relation. I use the word interactivity to designate an instrumentally contracted dynamic form that tends to shrink to the parameters of its objectively embodied instrumental function. I use the word relation to refer to the full spectrum of vitality that the dynamic form really includes, potentially, abstractly self-expressed in its semblance. Interactivity backgrounds its own artistic dimension when it concentrates on the function of the instrument to the detriment of the semblant expression. That’s what has happened when we hear the comment, all too common, from interactive art participants that the experience felt like a video game. You often feel there’s a trick you need to find and master, and once you’ve done that, you lose interest because you’ve got the feel of it and know how it “works.” When something loses intensity instead of becoming more compelling when you get the feel of it, it is a sure sign that it is operating more on a level of predefined objec-
tive function than fully lived relation.
I’m not saying that all interactive art does this. It’s just that this is the trap that is automatically laid for it, the problem it has to grapple with by its very nature. The problem is: in what way is this different from a game?