Is this doing something that mainstream informational capitalism isn’t already doing, ever so profitably, by generalizing the gaming paradigm? What’s new or different or intensely feeling or vitally voluminous or virtu- ally freeing about it? Paradoxically, the intensity of the dynamic form of the experience comes out most effectively when action-reaction circuits are artfully suspended or (even better in this context) when the action line itself is accompanied by a continuous semblance of itself, an ongoing perception of its singular eventfulness doubling the functional perception of the affordances offered and taken. The production of a perception of perception suspending or abstractly doubling action-reaction is an idea that Deleuze develops at length in connection to an older dynamic form in his Cinema books (1986, 1989).
V2 It sounds like you’ve boxed interactivity into a corner. If interactive art is about concrete action and art is more about abstract perception, then it sounds like it can’t ever really aspire to art. The way you’ve approached the question also seems to resuscitate some very old ideas about art—for example, the classical idea that it is “disinterested.” The modernist version of that idea is that art has to be about “estrangement.” Isn’t your idea of suspension of causal action-reaction chains just rehabilitating these notions? That neglects a major motivation behind a lot of new media art. A lot of people consider the traditional ways of doing art to be passifying precisely because they suspend. That artistic gesture is critiqued for creating a false sense of art’s “autonomy.” Elitism is another word many people would use for that, and for art’s aura. Interactive art is meant to take art out of its ghetto, out of the gallery, out of the frame, and into life. And you’re saying it misses the liveness. Interactivity is often looked on as liberating because it does this. For a lot of practitioners, that’s the whole point of it. How would you respond to this kind of criticism?
BM I entirely endorse attempts to bring life into art and art into life— although I’m not sure if I subscribe to all of the assumptions about art and about life that often go with explanations of why and how this should be done. For example, I think the notion of framing in these kinds of critique is often very reductive. But before I go into that, I think it’s important to remind ourselves that there can be a kind of tyranny to interaction.
Interactivity is not neutral with respect to power. In fact, according to Foucault, among the most invidious of regimes of power are the ones that