impose an imperative to participate, particularly when the imperative is to express yourself “truly” or “authentically.” You are constantly interpel- lated. You are under orders to be yourself—for the system. You have to reveal yourself for who you are. In fact, you become who you are in expressing yourself. You are viscerally exposed, like a prodded sea cucum- ber that spits its guts. You are exposed down to your inmost sensitive folds, down to the very peristaltic rhythms that make you what you are. This is generative power, a power that reaches down into the soft tissue of your life, where it is just stirring, and interactively draws it out for it to become what it will be, and what it suits the system that it be. This is what Foucault calls “positive” power or “productive” power. It produces its object of power interactively through its own exercise. That object of power is your life. Not just your behavior, not just your labor—your life. It’s what Fou- cault calls “biopower” (2008). It’s a soft tyranny.
You see it everywhere today. The telltale sign is the positive feedback loop. For example, you buy things with your credit card, presumably to satisfy needs or desires in your life. Needs, desires: you purchase at your soft points. That visceral act is actually an interaction: you have just par- ticipated in a data-mining operation. Your input feeds a marketing analysis apparatus, and that feeds a product development machine. The system eventually gets back to you with new products responding to the input, and with new ways to reach you, massage your rhythms, air out your viscera, induce you to spend. New needs and desires are created. Even whole new modes of experience, which your life begins to revolve around. You have become, you have changed, in interaction with the system. You have literally shopped yourself into being. At the same time, the system has adapted itself. It’s a kind of double capture of mutual responsiveness in a reciprocal becoming.
This is just a quick example to make the point that interactivity can be a regime of power. It is often thought that the limitations of interaction within predetermined parameters of functioning, of the kind I was just talking about, can be easily overcome by making the interaction evolution- ary through feedback. My example of biopower is precisely an example of an evolutionary interaction. It is simply not enough to champion interac- tivity. You have to have ways of evaluating what modes of experience it produces, what forms of life those modes of experience might develop into,