and what regimes of power might arise from those developments. The power element is always there, at least on the horizon. You have to strat- egize around it. You have to strategize how not to make prodded sea cucumbers of your participants, at the same time as you don’t want to just let them stay in their prickly skins. Simply maximizing interaction, even maximizing self-expression, is not necessarily the way. I think you have to leave creative outs. You have to build in escapes. Drop sinkholes. And I mean build them in—make them immanent to the experience. If the inside folds interactively come out, then fold the whole inside-outside interaction in again. Make a vanishing point appear, where the interaction turns back in on its own potential, and where that potential appears for itself. That could be a definition of producing an aesthetic effect. The semblances I was talking about earlier could be a definition of aesthetic effect.
Understood in the way I’m talking about, an aesthetic effect is not just decoration. I started with a decorative example, but the point I wanted to make was not that art is decorative but rather that even decorative art is a creative event, however modest. It creates a semblance. A semblance is a placeholder in present perception of a potential “more” to life. The framing of it determines the intensity or range or seriousness of that potential.
Take the way a simple object is doubled by its own “likeness.” You don’t just have an experience of the single present thing. You at the same time experience what it’s like to experience its presence. That “likeness” marks the object as a variation on itself. You perceive what it’s like because in your life there have been other appearings “like” this one, and you implic- itly anticipate more will come. The likeness is the invisible sign of a con- tinuing. This puts a certain distance between the object and itself. A kind of self-abstraction. The thing stands for itself, and for difference from itself over time. Because in time it will appear episodically, under variation. It holds these variations-on in the present, which is why it is a kind of imme- diate, lived abstraction. This haloes the object with certain genericness, extending what it is beyond its own particularity. The thing is both itself and a placeholder in life’s process for others like it. The semblance is the leading edge, in the present, of future variation, and at the same time a doppler from variations past. It is the thing’s perceived margin of changeability, the thinking-feeling of potential appearings of particulars