belonging to the same genre, appearing in the same style. A semblance is a direct perception of a life style. It is like an intuition of the thing as a life motif—a pattern of varied repetitions.
Each repetition will be different to a degree, because there will be at least microvariations that give it its own singular experiential quality and make it an objective interpretation of the generic motif. The semblance makes each particular a singular-generic. It is because it presents difference through variation that it is a thinking-feeling of a margin of changeability. You could even say of indeterminacy, since likenesses can overlap and contaminate each other. A chair is like itself and the next chair. But it is also like a sofa, from the perchabilitiy point of view. How far the “likeness” goes is determined by the body’s relation to the thing. It’s not cognitive per se, like a recognition or deduction. It’s integral. A thinking at one with a feeling: a thinking-further fused with a feeling of what is. But the fusion is asymmetrical because the feeling of what is zeroes in on what can be settled in the present, while the thinking-further pulls off-center and away toward more, so that together they make a dynamic, never quite at equi- librium. This gives the present perception its own momentum, even though it can’t presently signpost exactly where it’s going. It’s more an open-ended tending-to than a reflection-of or a reflecting-on. It’s a pos- ture—if you can call a disposition to moving in a certain style a posture. It’s a dynamic posture. The “likeness” will smudge strictly logical categories to the extent that the body tends-to, moves on, transfers habits, reflexes, competencies, and thinking-feelings from one thing to the next, expands its repertory of dynamic postures by mixing, matching and alloying them, explores its own living potential, strikes new postures—invents new ways of affording itself of the world, in collaboration with the world, with what the world throws before it. A singular-generic is not a general category, anymore than it’s just a particular. It’s not positioned in a way that pigeon- holes it. It’s on the move—it’s on a dispositional continuum. There is no such thing as site-specific. The very word conjures up the notion of “simple location” that Whitehead identified as the basic error of modernity (White- head 1967b, 49, 58, 91).
At any rate, thought and imagination are the leading edges of this exploratory expansion of potential, because they can wander from the particular present posture even without actually leaving it. And without being limited to the potential next steps that it most presents, that it makes