most available or automatic. They raise the smudge factor exponentially. A thing felt is fringed by an expanding thought-pool of potential that shades off in all directions. It’s like a drop in the pool of life making ripples that expand infinitely around. William James spoke in those terms. He said experience comes in “drops” (James 1996b, 231–232).
The semblance, or pure appearance, of a thing is a kind of processual distance it takes on itself. When in the course of everyday life we march habitually and half-consciously from one drop of life to the next, we don’t attend to the ripples. We see through the semblance to the next, not letting it appear with all its force. It’s like the thing falls back from the distance it potentially takes on itself. It closes in on itself. It falls from its distance on itself into itself. As a result, it appears banal, so paltry a thing that we just pass on to the next thing, hardly noticing what the last one was “like.” Only the most available and automatic ripple ring of potential appears, and often even then barely at the threshold of awareness. In his writings on art, Deleuze often says that to really perceive, to fully perceive, which is to say to perceive artfully, you have to “cleave things asunder” (Deleuze 1995, 86), You have to open them back up. You have to make their sem- blance appear as forcefully as possible. You have to give the thing its dis- tances back. He quotes Francis Bacon: you have to make a Sahara of it (Deleuze 2004b, 82, 128). You do this, in Bacon’s words again, as a “matter of fact.” Not as a matter of principle. Not as a matter of opinion. Not in accordance with purely logical categories, progressions, and relations. Not to represent. Not to reflect. Instead, as an event. In a drop of lived relation that has a style all its own, that exemplifies its own singular-generic logic, and is as really appearing as it is infinitely expansive.
This sundering of things is what I meant by “suspension.” It’s the oppo- site of “disinterestedness,” if you interpret that to mean neutrality or a subjective posture of noncommittal. The semblance is not subjective. As I tried to explain, it makes the object an object. There is no subject, apart from the singular aliveness appearing in the object’s generic wake. The subject is life. This life. “A” life, as Deleuze would say (Deleuze 2007, 384–89). So the process I’m talking about can’t ever be contained by any elitism because it always potentially exceeds, at very least on its outermost fringes, any standard of taste or coolness that a particular social grouping might succeed in imposing on it. It’s the opposite of all that. It’s intensify- ing. Enlivening. Potentializing.