It’s artificial to talk about this only in relation to single things. Every thing appears in a situation, along with others. The situation itself is a life-drop. A bigger drop, with its own ripples of potential that overlap with those of its constituent things but can also diverge from them, subtract them from itself or alloy them in other configurations. Every appearance is at a crossroads of life. At the limit, what appears isn’t just a drop or a pool, but a whole ocean, with calm stretches and turbulence, ripplings that cancel each other out and others that combine and amplify, with crests and troughs, killer surf-breaks and gentle lappings at the shores of other situations. For James, the fact that experience comes in drops doesn’t mean it can’t also come with “oceanic” feeling.
What interactive art can do, what its strength is in my opinion, is to take the situation as its “object.” Not a function, not a use, not a need, not a behavior, exploratory or otherwise, not an action-reaction. But a situa- tion, with its own little ocean of complexity. It can take a situation and “open” the interactions it affords. The question for interactive art is, How do you cleave an interaction asunder? Setting up an interaction is easy. We have any number of templates for that. But how do you set it up so you sunder it, dynamically smudge it, so that the relational potential it tends- toward appears? So that the situation’s objectivity creatively self-abstracts, making a self-tending life-movement, a life-subject and not just a setup. How, in short, do you make a semblance of a situation? These are technical questions, essentially about framing, about what it means to frame an event situationally or house a dispositional life-subject. You can get there technically—in fact whatever the nature of the object involved, it is always a question of technique—but when you do it’s not because you’ve build a better-functioning machine. It’s because you’ve built into the operation shifts in emphasis from interaction to lived relation. You’re creating ways of making the lived relation really appear. You’re operating on the qualita- tive level of thinking-feeling, where you are pooling styles of being and becoming, not just eliciting behaviors.
There are practices, of course, that already do this implicitly to one degree or another, usually in a more determinate way, more narrowly focused on ensuring regular and dependable affordances, functional or instrumental perchings, rather than by sundering and fringing. What is architecture, if not “site-specific” life-design? What is an institution, if not a distributed architecture of experience? Architecture and institutions are