two dynamically connected poles on a processual continuum between positioning and disposition, settling the present and disseminating settle- ment. A practice that pries open existing practices, of whatever category, scale, siting, or distribution, in a way that makes their potential reappear at a self-abstracting and self-differing distance from routine functioning, in a potentialized semblance of themselves—variational practice of that kind could be called (to borrow the felicitous term Rafael Lozano-Hemmer applies to his own approach to interactive art) a relational architecture (Massumi 2000). A relational architecture is oriented toward the dissemi- nating end of things, toward potential expansion, but is anti-institutional. It unsettles. It pushes the dispositional envelope of the processual con- tinuum  just  mentioned.
That’s the angle from which I would encourage a rethinking of interac- tive art—from the premise that its vocation is to construct a situation or go into an existing situation, and open it into a relational architecture. Ways of doing that, the nuts and bolts of making potential reappear, are what Erin Manning and I in our collaborative work call techniques of relation (Manning 2009b, 42, 86–93, 105; Manning and Massumi, forthcoming b). The techniques of existence discussed throughout this book are techniques of relation. We use the word technique in a sense inspired by Gilbert Simondon, whose account of technical invention is couched in similar terms of emergent relational potential and becoming, in a way that places the technical object and art in the same orbit without reducing one to the other (Simondon 1989, 179–201). The difference, of course, is that the regulatory principles of the technical process in the narrow sense are utility and salability, profit-generating ability. Art claims the right to have no manifest utility, no use-value, and in many cases even no exchange-value. At its best, it has event-value.
This is precisely what makes art political, in its own way. It can push further to the indeterminate but relationally potentialized fringes of exist- ing situations, beyond the limits of current framings or regulatory prin- ciples. Aesthetic politics is an exploratory politics of invention, unbound, unsubordinated to external finalities. It is the suspensive aspect of it that gives it this freedom. The suspension of the most available potentials, the potentials already most comfortingly embodied, well housed and usefully institutionalized gives a chance for more far-fetched potentials to ripple up. Aesthetic politics is “autonomous” in the sense that it has its own