momentum, it isn’t beholden to external finalities. It bootstraps itself on its own in-built tendencies. It creates its own motive force in the dynamic form in which it appears. Practices that explicitly define themselves as political and do not claim the artistic label can be characterized as aesthetic politics to the extent that they similarly strive to bootstrap far-fetching event-value and make it really, tendentially appear in a present situation. This kind of practice has been with us, not continuously but in drops and smudges, since at least the Situationists, and it gained new momentum in our own time in the antiglobalization movement post-Seattle.
Artistic practices that explicitly attempt to be political often fail at it, because they construe being political as having political content, when what counts is the dynamic form. An art practice can be aesthetically political, inventive of new life potentials, of new potential forms of life, and have no overtly political content. I would go so far as to say that it is the exception that art with overtly political content is political in the sense I’m talking about here. When it is, it’s because care has been taken not only to make sense but to make semblance, to make the making-sense experientially appear, in a dynamic form that takes a potential-pushing distance on its own particular content.
The work of Natalie Jeremijenko and the Bureau of Inverse Technology stands out in this regard. In recent interactive projects, Jeremijenko has attempted to not only to encourage participants to reflect on environmen- tal issues, focusing in this case on human-animal relations, but she has used the interactions to slip participants into perceiving, in one case, like a fish. The ideational content was doubled by a perceptual becoming. The think- ing-feeling-like-a-fish was the semblance in the situation, pointing beyond it. A quality of experience was built in that could potentially lead to thoughts, sensations, and further perceptions that might fold out, toward follow-on in other situations that neither the participants nor the artist could foresee (never having been an environmentally aware fish before).
An aesthetic politics defies the law of the conservation of energy. It can get more creative energy out of a situation than it puts into it. It’s inven- tive in a more radical way than a technical invention in the usual narrow sense. It’s not the gadgetry or setup that’s creative, even if nothing like it has ever been seen before. The setup is creative to the extent that an emer- gent experience takes off from it that has its own distinctive lived quality, and because of that its own self-differing momentum.