V2 It’s quite a stretch to go from a decorative motif to a worldwide politi- cal movement, not to mention human fish. Some might accuse you of explanatory overkill. For one thing, all of the main examples you’ve given are visual. One orientation that is almost universally shared in new media art is a turning away from the visual in favor of the tactile or haptic. This is considered a political gesture because the visual has long been critiqued as a form of dominance under the name ocularcentrism. How does the perspective you’re advancing position itself with respect to that? How can you generalize from simple visual examples to interactive art that tries to access other dimensions of the body, against the domination of vision?
BM Vision has gotten bad press. When people talk about the visual, what they are actually talking about is almost always a certain mode of what in perception studies is called cross-modal transfer—a certain way that differ- ent senses interoperate. How, for example, does classical perspective paint- ing create an experience of depth? By composing lines and colors in such a way as to trigger a direct experience of the potential I was talking about in relation to object awareness in so-called natural perception: the poten- tial to advance, move around, bring backsides into view, and touch. This is a direct visual experience. But vision has been crafted in such a way as to wrap potential kinesthesias and tactilities into itself. It’s a semblance, just as the object itself was, but with the objective potential suspended, because you can’t actually advance and touch. It’s object-perception, without the object. The object was already an abstraction, in the sense that what made it appear as an object and not a one-sided surface was what didn’t appear, or only virtually appeared—the relays to other sensings. Perspective paint- ing doesn’t “trick” object-perception. It activates it otherwise. The experi- ence of depth is not an optical “illusion.” It’s a real experience of depth, minus the depth. The experience of depth has been made to take off from its usual experiential framing and enter a different frame.
What perspective painting does is tap into the abstraction already at the basis of object perception, and carry it to a higher power, where the object itself, and not only touchings of it and movings-around it, are abstracted, that is to say, really appear virtually, in pure appearance. That pure appear- ance occurs through an actual object—the canvas, frame, and pigment setup. But the painting as actual object in its own right disappears into the abstraction it taps. When you are experiencing painted depth, you aren’t looking at a canvas, you are seeing a scene. You’re seeing through the canvas