into an abstraction that has taken off from it, and is a qualitatively differ- ent perceptual event. Your perception has been siphoned into the sem- blance, the canvas’s ghostly perceptual double. The semblance can’t happen without a perch in objecthood. But when it happens, it is in uncanny excess of actual objectivity. Of course the uncanniness effect weakens with time, as people’s perception habituates. At first, it is directly apparent, and not only that, it hits like a force—think of the first cinematic images that had audiences fleeing before the virtual advance of a train. A semblance isn’t just like a force. Its “likeness” is a force, an abstract force of life. Lumière’s moving images were literally capable of launching live bodies into flight.
The force of the semblance can be seized upon and made use of. It is no accident that the development of perspective painting was associated with the rise of court society. The “aura” of it was seized upon and used to heighten the prestige-value of the monarchy at a time when it was evolving in certain parts of Europe toward absolutism. The aesthetic event- value was captured by that political formation and translated into political prestige-value. The semblance that took off from the framed canvas was reframed by the court institution, which gave it an abstract function inte- gral to its own dynamic system.
Photography also lent the aura to reframings of value. The photographic semblance came at a time when production and consumption were being privatized. It was used to transfer the royal “aura” of painting to the private capitalist citizen as pillar of the new civil society. Photographic portraiture could make visible, no longer the social prestige-value that attached to the private bourgeois individual in its public role. This was just a brief way station, because the semblance was already migrating again, thanks in large part to the new traffic in images photography made possible, into the magic of the marketed commodity object (Benjamin 1999a, 2003). What is the ghostly force of Marx’s “commodity fetishism” if not a semblance of life lived through consumer artifacts? There is still a kind of aura to it: a kind of personal capitalist prestige-value that rubs off on the purchasing privatized individual, down to the most banal details of its everyday life. The aura of the life banal. The art of cool. Or in a more mainstream vein, lifestyle marketing.
But there is always a residue of semblant potential left after any and all of its captures. Semblant potential is singularly, generically inexhaustible.