The residual force of the photographic semblance is what Roland Barthes called the “punctum,” which he describes in terms of an uncanny sensa- tion of the lived quality of a perished life surviving that life (Barthes 1988). The punctum for Barthes is an affective force that makes the photo breathe with a feeling of life, a life, in all the singularity of its having had no choice but to follow the generic life path toward death in its own unique and unreproducible way. It’s not about the content of the life per se or about psychological associations that a memento of it might arouse in the observer, it’s not really even about grief. It’s about the affective commotion of a direct, immediate, uncanny thinking-feeling of the dynamic quality of a life no more. The punctum is the appearance through the photo of an affective afterlife. It is the strike of a life as a force, beyond an actual life, In other words, as abstracted from it, as a real but abstract force of life-likeness.
The point is that art is in inventive continuity with natural perception. Every art object works by tapping into a certain aspect of “natural” percep- tion in order to reabstract it, so that some actual potentials that were there are suspended while others that tended not to appear before, or even had never appeared before, are brought out. The new potentials can be captured and reframed, and even given functions, political, social, personal, or eco- nomic. They can also escape capture—in fact there is always a residue that does—in which case they appear as political, social, personal, or economic resistance to whatever external finalities and functional reframings hold sway (even death). The point here is that none of this is about a tricking of perception. It’s about a continuing expression of its evolving potentials. Art isn’t about “illusion.” That’s not what “semblance” means (although Langer herself uses the terms interchangeably). Art is about constructing artifacts—crafted facts of experience. The fact of the matter is that experi- ential potentials are brought to evolutionary expression.
Perspective painting makes the spatial 3D quality of experience into a purely visual  matter of  fact. In aesthetic  philosophy, in  Alois Riegl and Wilhelm Worringer, the word “haptic” doesn’t mean touch. It refers to touch as it appears virtually in vision—touch as it can only be seen. Any practice of abstraction operates on all the senses at the same time, virtualizing some in order to heighten others with the abstract force of what then doesn’t actually appear. Experience is a continuum. All its dimensions are always all there, only differently abstracted, in different