actual-virtual configurations, expressing different distributions of poten- tials. The actual-virtual configuration itself always appears, in the form of an experiential quality or “likeness”—objectness for “natural perception,” an objective spaciness without actual objects for perspective painting, a certain animation without actual life for decorative motif, and after actual life for photography, at least of a certain kind at a certain stage of its cul- tural history.
V2 If a semblance can be given a function, doesn’t that contradict its “autonomy”? What you’ve just said about the political function of perspec- tive painting, for example, seems to corroborate the critiques of vision I mentioned.
BM I’m not at all denying that perceptual artifacts lend themselves to regimes of power, or envelop in themselves power potentials as well as powers of resistance. What I’m saying is that they can do this because of their autonomy, as an effect of it. I mentioned before that a semblance in itself is a kind of “living-in” of potential, in the sense of holding life poten- tial in immanence—wholly immanent to the semblance’s appearance. How can a framed picture presenting a fragment of a scene hold a wholeness of potential in it? By including what doesn’t actually appear, but that is nec- essarily involved in the thinking-feeling of what does. A semblance is a form of inclusion of what exceeds the artifact’s actuality. That’s Leibniz’s monadic principle. Leibniz’s monads are not “closed” in the sense that they are limited. They’re closed because they’re saturated, because they hold within themselves their own infinity. There’s just no room for any more. They have their own “moreness,” in how they potentially continue, how they self-distance, stretch themselves further than they presently go. A monad is the semblance of a world. It is the worldly way in which, in Whitehead’s words, each thing “essentially involves its own connection to the universe of other things . . . an infinitude of alternative potentialities” (Whitehead 1968, 66). The monadism of a semblance is the way a thing includes its outside in itself. The semblance is a little absolute of “immedi- ately given relation,” as James puts it (James 1996b, 280). The great abso- lute is the Hegelian totality of self-sameness that “includes its own other” (1996b, 271) in its all-encompassing self-identity. In contrast, the little absolute includes its own other in such a way that its identity “telescopes and diffuses into other reals” (1996b, 272). It includes its own others