dispositionally, “doubling monadology with a nomadology” (Deleuze 1993, 137, translation modified). The little absolute is not so much closed as it is virtually in-folding and out-folding. This makes it a fragmentary totality, because it folds from its own singular perspective, and the “others” that it includes reciprocally include it, equally telescoped and diffused into their singular worldy perspectives. The telescopings and diffusings don’t overlap perfectly. They don’t fit harmoniously together. They are incom- mensurably mutually including. Each semblance is a world-fragment including all the others from its own perspective. This makes the universe they reciprocally compose a co-construct organized according to what Guattari calls a principle of “transmonadism” (Guattari, 1995, 112-116). Benjamin, in his own transmonadic vocabulary, says that the semblance is a “smallest totality” (Benjamin 1996c, 225). An artwork, understood in terms of its semblance, is a whole relational world, in the transmonadic sense of being a “little absolute” dispositionally expressing “an infinitude of alternative potentialities.”
There is always a specific device or mechanism that is integral to the structuring of the artwork that operates the transmonadic inclusion and makes the artifact world-like in its own unique way. In Barthes’s account of photography, the mechanism is the punctum and its way of including in the portrait the dynamic wholeness of a life-world including its own afterlife. In perspective painting, it’s the vanishing point.
The vanishing point is how the scene’s continuing into its own distance appears. What is in the distance doesn’t appear. The vanishing point is not more content. It is where the content of the scene fades out into the dis- tance. The distance itself appears, through the fading. But the fading-out doesn’t even have to be painted in. It can be included in the painting without actually being painted, through the way the painting projects the eye into an abstract distance. The distance doesn’t have to be painted, because it can be lived, by the eyes. This is achieved in perspective tech- nique by a compositional principle that follows rules of geometric projec- tion. The composition of the painting is guided by a geometry of parallel lines projecting infinitely toward the vanishing point, in whose virtual distance they appear to converge. This produces a virtual visual movement, not unlike the movement I described in decorative motif. Except in this case, the movement doesn’t appear for itself, it appears for the geometric order that produced it. It doesn’t take off in its own right, it falls back into