its abstract cause. What we see is not so much the movement. Through the virtual visual movement, we see the scene with a feeling of the regular- ity of its geometry. We can’t see the artwork’s content without thinking- feeling its spatial order. Without producing it for our own experience of the scene. Perspective painting spatializes the visual movement it creates in order to produce a perceived order. The harmony and regularity of this perceived spatial order continues infinitely into the distance at the virtual center of the vanishing point. But it also radiates. It circles back from the virtual center, around to the outside of the frame. The scene is centered on the infinity of its spatial order, and is also fringed by it. It is immersed in it. The artwork is actually bounded by the frame, but its scene is virtu- ally unlimited. It’s the semblance of a world, bounded and unlimited. The semblance is also in a sense closed, but not spatially. It closes the world’s constitutive variety on principle: the principle of a single, infinite order of harmony and regularity.3
The only sense in which a semblance is an “illusion” is when, as in this case, the “immediately given relation” it expresses finds principled closure in an unlimited harmony of order—in spite of the partiality and incom- mensurability betokened by its individual framing. Benjamin (1996b, 283) calls a semblance that contrives to make a universal harmonic order effec- tively appear a “beautiful semblance.” A beautiful semblance is one pur- porting to offer a transparent window onto a great absolute. A beautiful semblance “quivers” with the tension of this pretention to greatnesss. The tension is such that the moment its harmony is  “disrupted” or “inter- rupted,” it “shatters” into fragments. It then shows itself to have been all along but a “smallest totality”—like each of its infinitely included other- worlds whose status as real alternate potentialities has been effectively “veiled” by the apparent harmony of its virtually unlimited order (Benja- min 1996c, 224–225; Benjamin 2002, 137).
Pragmatically, the individual framing of the painting allows it, and its virtually unlimited order, to be inserted inside another frame. The painting is hung on the wall of the royal court. As a world-fragment in-spite-of-itself, it has no actual connection to this other world of the court. After all, its geometric order  of harmonious connection is virtual, a beautiful  sem- blance. But its insertion into the larger frame of the royal court makes its principle of universal order appear within that frame as well. Not uncoin- cidentally, the absolute monarchy aspires on its own behalf to just this