principle of an infinitely radiating harmonious order, as regular and uni- versal as geometry. Like painting, like realm. The all-seeing eye of the absolute monarch is the vanishing point of the kingdom. It is the abstract (god-like) cause of the ordered space of the realm, infinite by rights. The king’s body is the preeminent body whose virtual movements constitute the macro-order of the glorious whole of the realm. The space of the paint- ing and the space of the realm are analogs of each other. They don’t connect in any direct way. They don’t actually connect. There is an unbridgeable reality-gap between them. They are actually incommensu- rable. One is a painting, the other a realm. They have different qualitative natures, operate at different scales, have different contents and compo- nents, and are put together differently. Actually, they are in a relation of nonrelation. Yet they produce, each in its own way, a semblance of the same order. Where they do overlap is at their virtual centers—their vanishing points coincide. The vanishing point only has an abstract or formal exis- tence, because what it contains never appears. It’s the form in which what doesn’t actually appear appears. Except it isn’t even actually a form, it’s a form of abstraction, an abstract fading away, the appearing of a disappear- ing into the distance that folds the distance in, most harmoniously. The painting and the court enact the same form of abstraction, across their differences in scale, content, and components. They are different revolving around the same virtual center, which is immanent to both of them, the vanishing point where they each live themselves in. They coincide purely abstractly, at the very point at which they are immanent to themselves.
Remember that the vanishing point makes the perspectival artwork self- embracing as a whole. This makes it the semblance of a harmonious world, even though the scene it contains is actually partial. It is a self-embracing harmonious whole because the spatial ordering doesn’t fade out with the actually perceptible contents. Quite the reverse, the fading-out of the content makes the order come back around, to complete a circuit. The spatial order wraps back around to surround the fringes of the frame, giving a definite present a boundary to the infinity it holds. This offsets the infin- ity of the world of the painting from its immediate surroundings. As a result, it enjoys a self-embracing autonomy from what’s actually around it. The same goes for the kingdom: it is an infinitely self-embracing order that is nevertheless offset from other kingdoms around it, and from other political formations (even if they share the same actual territory, as with