very well not have happened, even with all the necessary conditions in place, even with the potential readily available. That it happened was an event, an encounter, an accident. That’s precisely what makes it historical. But it was an accident that was sustained. Their entering into cooperation was an accident and an achievement. Hard work and much technique went into sustaining the encounter, into holding them together: a system of court patronage of artists, an educating of court society and the larger society, a cultivating of taste, an adaptation of architecture to house the artworks implicated in the encounter (the Louvre being the case in point), new institutions (to give another example from France, the Academy). They were not so much connected to each other as they entered into the same zone of operative proximity capable of holding them together ana- logically, and of giving that holding-together a function. They “quivered” together in the same transmonadic field.
The reason they were made for each other is that sharing the same principle of order put them intensely into “resonance,” as Deleuze and Guattari would put it. They connected abstractly, in analog offset, at the virtual center where their immanence to themselves appeared. The virtual center is like a black hole. It sucks everything in, but still emanates a certain energy. For example, the vanishing point in painting takes the whole scene in. But across the variations in painted content, it can also leak something back out. Not a thing, but an abstract quality.
Landscape painting, repeated and varied, gave the perspectival spatial order an ethos. It gave the purely geometric ordering of perspective space an inhabited quality. The semblance came to be virtual home to a people. An inhabited quality is just what a realm wants, if it is going to try to unite its people and not only try to expand its territory. It’s an attractive quality for a kingdom, for reasons all its own. The imperial monarchy was predis- posed to take that same quality into itself, to make it its own, to interpret it, in the sense of producing its own effective analog of it, in its own politi- cal world. As was totalitarianism, differently. And bourgeois democracy, differently again. There was no necessary causal connection in any usual sense of the word between perspective painting and the imperial monar- chy. There was more an affective impetus—an autonomous “want” in the kingdom—that happened to echo with a qualitative spin-off effect of painting practice. The want was not an expression of a lack, but rather of the empire’s striving or tending to sustain and expand its world-saturation.