It was an expression of its dynamic fullness with itself. It’s what Spinoza would call “conatus.” The formations communicated with each other through the abstract coupling of an affect with an effect, which because of its abstract qualitative nature could not be touched by any actually present cause. Simondon calls the kind of analog contagion between dif- ferent but resonating formations of which this an example transduction in order to distinguish it from linear causality, with its ban on action at a distance and its presumption of actual, local, part-to-part connection (Simondon 2005, 31–33, 107–110 and passim).
Formations communicate only immanently, at the points where they live themselves in, or at their self-embracing fringes. They only virtually relate. All relation is virtual. Earlier, when I was talking about how vision related to the other senses, I ended up having to say that vision is virtual. It is only because relation is virtual that there is any freedom or creativity in the world. If formations were in actual causal connection, how they effectively connect would be completely determined. They might interact, but they would not creatively relate. There would be no gap in the chain of connection for anything new to emerge from and pass contagiously across. There’d be no margin of creative indeterminacy. No wriggle room. Or to borrow Whitehead’s expression, there’d be no “elbow room” in the world (Whitehead 1967a, 195). The idea that all connection and commu- nication is immanent, that there is no actual relation, is at the heart of Whitehead’s philosophy. He calls it the “contemporary independence of actual occasions” (Whitehead 1967a, 195–199). He says that all formations cohabiting the present are completely autonomous in relation to  each other. They are absolute in that sense. Pure monadic appearances (1967a, 177). Semblances. World-fragments. Drops of experience. Little absolutes. Each begins at a nonconscious, micro-experiential level. At this incipient level, the coming experience is affectively potentialized to unfold. It unfolds, singularly, in its “sheer individuality” (1967a, 177), from an immanent affective relation to other occasions. Drops of experience overlap in affect. An example he gives is anger (1967a, 183–184).
How, he asks, does an angry person know he’s angry the next moment, even if it’s just a half-second later? He isn’t reflecting, he doesn’t conclude that he’s angry. He just is, still. He finds himself still in his anger. The anger is the in-ness of that moment,  as it was the in-ness of  the preceding