1949, 83, 96, 99). The contents are precipitation. A rain of words and gestures in the micro-climate that is life at this moment, coming in drops. The discontinuity inevitably gets smoothed over. The attending-to affor- dance that I talked about earlier is one way it gets smoothed over. Use- oriented or behavioral focus on the flow of action translates the immanent overlap of experiences into an external relay from one action to the next. It translates the qualitative continuity of affect at the incipient micro- experiential level onto the conscious macro-level of objective interaction. Immanent relation is overlaid by the appearance of an actual connection. This occurs on an instrumental level forgetful of the nonsensuous percep- tion at the heart of all experience. The virtual continuity in the gaps is arced over by what purports to be an actual continuity across the gaps. The monadic discontinuity between drops of experience is bridged over by a sense of interactivity that functionally passes over it, which is to say, passes
it over.
Narrative is another powerful device by which the actual discontinuity between drops of experience is passed over. Interactivity involves a func- tional macro-continuity. Narrative produces a verbal meta-continuity. The angry words will be explained, justified, rationaIized, excused, given cause and made understandable, smoothed over. It’s fictional. And it’s palliative. It takes the edge off. It glosses things over after the fact. It’s “meta” in the etymological sense of “after.” It’s retrospective, operating on the level of conscious revision. This can be going on on a parallel track in the moment, like a revisory verbal echo of the perceptual déjà vu of the semblance. Narrative linguistically doubles experience’s perceptual doubling of itself, and can do this with the same immediacy. A self-storied semblance. The self-storying reframes the event for ready insertion in the larger operative envelope of socially regulated discourse. This glossing makes sense of the semblance.
Of course, this isn’t the only way in which language can function in art. It has many nonnarrative modalities—the phatic and the performative to mention just two—that operate in the immediacy of experience and can be taken up with art. These modalities may underlie sensemaking, as the phatic does. Or they undermine it. They may suspend it in order to cleave it asunder—“make language itself stutter,” as Deleuze was fond of saying (Deleuze 1997, 15, 107–114). Or like the performative, they may operate within  language  in  an  asignifying  manner,  to  make  things  happen