potentiality” for the virtual as it makes ingress into an actual occasion. For more on the way Deleuze charts his own vocabulary of virtuality, potential, and possibility into Whitehead’s—which is too complex to do justice to here—see 1993, 79–80.)5
At any rate, there’s an ethics and a politics of creativity contained in Whitehead’s notion of contemporary independence that I think are impor- tant to explore. They lead in very different directions from the ethical and political orientations we’ve inherited from that other notion of autonomy native to our time, the idea of sovereign-individual freedom. That kind of autonomy seems to be presupposed not only by liberalism, but by many of the “radical” politics that interactive art often aligns itself with. The main project of the aesthetic politics I’m talking about would be to rethink autonomy in qualitatively relational terms. It would be an affective poli- tics, more about seeding exploratory weather patterns  than  cultivating their determinate contents, the particular ideas or behaviors that will be performed.
V2 Can you make this a bit more concrete as regards interactive art? We’re still essentially in painting and in the visual. Can you give an example from interactive art?
BM OK, but give me a minute to work myself out of the vanishing point, which has taken over a bit. As I was saying, classical figurative painting employing perspective technique renders the abstract movement of per- ception as a spatial order governed by a universal principle ensuring harmony between perspectives. What shows-through the dynamic of this perceptual event is a spatial order that is as harmonious as it is unlimited. Its intimations  of harmony seem to promise  stability (although in the historical playing out of its principle in political ecology, what it delivers is far from it). The vitality affect of the perceptual event taking place is settling, pacifying, “civilizing.” This is why it feels more “concrete” or “realistic” than later painting that claims for itself the explicit label of “abstract” art. In art, concrete and realistic mean appearing with the feeling of a stable perceptual order that lends itself to analogue capture by larger frames of social or political orders that promote stability as a conservative value, even though they are incapable of delivering on it, given the reality of the transmonadic “quiver” at the heart of every formation. Given the virtual agitation tensing the “chaosmic umbilicus” of its affective core