autonomy of art in the sense discussed it earlier: not beholden to external finalities, bootstrapping itself on its own in-dwelt tendencies.
People often talk about the movement-feeling produced in art as “haptic” feeling (Marks 2002). I don’t agree. It’s overgeneralizing. It’s not paying sufficient attention to the composition of the experience. The sup- pression of the object-like in practices of abstraction like color field paint- ing also suppresses the uptake of tactility into vision. The other sense that virtually appears in dynamic visual form is kinesthesia, the feeling of movement.7 Abstract art recomposes the senses. It composes perception with a different experiential palette than either perspective painting or decorative art, which, as I said earlier, takes up a certain tactility in its movement-effect. Here, there is a purely optical kinesthesia that can only be seen, and only that. Athough on the other hand, texture alone  is enough to retain a touch of objectness. As we also saw earlier, where one modality of perception is present, so are all the rest . . . it’s a question of modes of composition and degrees of virtuality. The question has to be reexamined in each case to evaluate the nature of the recomposition. We should be careful not to generalize, but rather always reevaluate, attuned to the singularity of the work. It is all too easy to settle on a quick half answer, like saying that the haptic is about touch taking priority over vision. The haptic is about touch as only vision can make it appear, just like color field painting is about doing kinesthesia as only vision can. Texture is an example of haptic vision: you immediately see how it feels.
The perceptual self-referentiality of abstract painting as a thinking- feeling of vision-as-it-happens makes it, in itself, proudly useless. So what kind of aesthetic politics can come out of it? Is there any way that it can come out of itself, in resonance with other relational dynamics?
I think of the work of Robert Irwin as showing a way. His work has always been concerned with staging what he himself calls the perception of perception. In the early period, he practiced abstract art that created subtle, whole-field movement from arrays of dots (Weschler 1982, 85–97). As in all his work, the effect takes time to set in, but when it does it is absolutely scintillating. It’s less an out and out activity of vision than it is an activation of it. It’s like vision vibrates with its own potential. Irwin then moved into a more sculptural practice involving disks mounted on walls but lit in a way that their three-dimensionality disappears into a semblance of surface that retains a barely perceptible but extremely powerful, inwardly