As soon as we say that  all individuation is singular – an event  – the limits,  forms and  consequences of which  we cannot a priori determine, raises  a question: how to describe or refer  to a regime of individuation? There  is, for Simondon, a limit to  intelligence  which   approximates Bergson:   all  exclusively  theoretical approaches  to   regimes  of   individuation,  and   thus   of   relation,  necessarily transform, by cutting or stabilising, their  novelty. As Bergson  writes:  “because it is  always trying to  reconstitute, and   to  reconstitute with   what   is  given,   the intellect  lets what  is new  in each  moment of a history escape.  It does  not  admit the  unforeseeable. It rejects  all creation” (1998: 180). Intelligence is necessarily, for  Bergson,   related  to  a  ready-made reality,   because  it  is  only  interested  in possible action  on  things, this  action  necessarily requesting, according to  this vision  of intelligence, a simplification of these.  To be  able  to  act  on  things, to master them,  they  must  be identified and  placed at a distance from  the  subject. But, if Simondon concurs with  Bergson  on  the  limits  of intelligence (related to their  qualities), he  diverges from  him  by  highlighting all  the  zones  of “know- how”,   semi-theoretical, semi-practical, operations  and   gestures which   can  be notably found, although not exclusively, in technical operations. There is a sort of immanent intelligence of “know-how”, what  Polanyi called  “tacit  knowledge”, which  cannot be reduced to discursive forms  of knowledge. And  if we can link him  to  Bergson  on  the  critique of  intelligence, as  that  which   transforms the experience  in  favour  of  stable   and   homogenous  being-indvidual,  it  is  not necessary however to refer  to an “intuition”. The opposition of intelligence and intuition tends to ignore  the  fundamental part  of immanent intelligence, which can  be  explained in  the  operating  practices in  which  it is held,  engaged, and which   is  transmitted  through  collective   participation  (transmission of  know-