This  proposition  certainly has  a  priority effect:  the  challenge of  a  paradigm which  has crossed modernity and  which  deploys itself, more  or less implicitly, at every  level  of knowledge, in the  orientations given  to practices, in the  way  of relating to experience. This paradigm is that  of “being-individual”. One can say, very  schematically, that  modernity will  have  been,  according to  Simondon, a research  almost    exclusively  on   the   conditions  of   existence,    the   reasons, modalities  and   characteristics  of   the   individual,  granting  it,   implicitly  or explicitly, an “ontological privilege to the constituted individual.” (Simondon Forthcoming: 4) [3]. It is “the  individual, as a constituted individual, that  is the interesting reality,  the  reality  that  must  be explained” (Simondon forthcoming:
4). In  one  sense,  we  can  say  that  the  individual is a given,  since  we  make  no attempt to describe the genesis,  the coming  into existence,  what  Bergson  calls the “reality  in  becoming”.  [4]  In  another  sense,   we   can   say   that   this   ‘being- individual’ is produced by an assemblage of practices, of cuttings, which  seek to extract   from   experience  this   part   of  individuality.  What   characterises  this paradigm is its  way  of presenting these  productions of  “being-individual” as things, which  are given  or encountered in experience. This truly  is an abstraction in the literal  meaning of the word:  to abstract a part  of the experience. Therefore, all  hybrid situations, the  beings  more  or  less  completed, virtual or  actual,  the extensions  of  some   elements  in  others   should,  according  to  this   paradigm, ultimately   reduce   to   a   multiplicity  of   stable    individuals,   invariant   and autonomous. Simondon would certainly return to William  James when he wrote that,  “whatever we distinguish and  isolate  conceptually is found perceptually to telescope and  compenetrate and  diffuse  into  its neighbours. The cuts  we  make are purely ideal”  (1996: 49-50), with  the difference that  Simondon was interested in existence  and  not only in perception.