Conventional ecologies are often thought of as stable equilibriums and functional systems. They are described as fragile, loosing their balance easily. The equilibrium of an ecology is often called a precarious ecology. Every entity has its place in that natural order. If one element in the system changes, everything changes, transforming from one functional state to another one in a predictable way. Relationality here figures only in pregiven principles. Stability and Instability are often thought of as dichotomy, only shifting in between stable states. 
How to think change in terms of the ecology as well as the singular generic (Massumi, Steps Toward an Ecology of Powers)? 
The ecological relation is not the actual but the virtual composition. The Milieu is the milieu to come. The relation of the ecological composition is the potential for change. This renders the ecology precarious in a double way and not only related to its stability. How to think precarity beyond the dichotomy of stability/instability? As relation and composition elements in ecologies are precarious, related to something, which they are not. But not only the composition consists of precarious relations, it is precarious because of its openness to the future, its potential for change. 
This is a double precarity, a precarity in movement. Movement towards change. Stability is only a precarious stability in a sense Simondon would call metastable: full of potential for change, the slightest alteration would break that stability. Stability and Instability here are no oppositions. The milieu is not thought of as stable and than altered, but meta-stability itself is the potential toward change.
To think Ecology not as a harmony always reproducing the same but as a precarious state of futuriousness, one has to start with the singular generic not with the system or whole. Not orders or systems act, but the singular generic as virtual “agent” in between systems.
Precarity becomes a refrain, oscillating between stability and instability: it is not about ir/regularity, it is a movement in between both. It is a wave, a relation, a constant movement which does not lead to one single stable state, neither stability nor instability (Barad, Meeting the Universe Halfway). None of them pre-exists and none of them excludes the other – precarity.