Just   the other day  (on   a plane)I  saw a film.  I   am trying  to remember  what happened. There  was an  immigrant  couple, an Arab man and  an African woman I   believe,  who, through  complicated  circumstances  befriended  this white middle-class  professor.  The Arab  guy teaches the white professor  how to drum and they become friends.  Then one day, while carrying  the drum on the New York  subway  the Arab  man gets pulled over by the cops and thrown into immigration detention because his papers had expired. And then it becomes all about the white guy realizing how awful immigration detention is, and lobbying for his new Arab  friend’s  release.  And, of  course, everyone who works  at the detention is very rude and mean in a kind of exaggerated way, just to drive the point home.  And the people on the plane next to me were nice good-hearted liberals–we’d  just  been  excitedly talking  about the Democratic  Convention  – who were gushing about what a wonderful movie this was.   And of course, yes, the political position  is correct, but really  there’s  something  so simplistic  about this, and that’s a good example of what gets considered liberal political cinema now. You  walk  out of  the movie  feeling  very  satisfied  that you have correct thoughts  and that others  think  like  you. Again,  I   have no problem  with  the position,  but I  think  that truly  political work should not  make  you  feel  satisfied with what you  know; it should make you  feel a little bit unsatisfied and a little bit unstable  with  some of  your  assumptions,  a little  uneasy.  There  is  a kind  of smugness in that film—I can’t remember the name, but I think there are a lot of films now like  that and there  certainly  have been several  films about suicide bombers   where  everything  is   very   clear,   and  you come  out  feeling   that everything you  know has been confirmed. It’s an illusion that you  learned something, but, in fact, you learned what you already knew.