JL:   I   am trying   to remember  who  it  was  that said  something   so  beautiful, something to the effect of,  ‘I set out to do what everybody else does, but it just comes out different.” So, I don’t know if I set out to make it somehow different. I try to think  in terms of formal approaches—how can the sound and the image reflect  the feeling  that I  want to get at in a particular  point.  I  don’t necessarily set  out with a system, and yet it becomes a system. I think on some level I am a formalist. But it’s always  somehow  a reflection of  something  I  am trying to get across in that particular film. In the example of Day  Night Day  Night, I thought of it as two different halves. I thought here is a film about this girl where more than half the film is spent planning and preparing, spent almost entirely in interiors, in isolation.  And then  she’s thrown  out into  the street,  in  the middle  of  Times Square, in the middle of a crowd, attempting to carry out this action. So then, it became a question  of  how do  you formally  reflect  that inherent  difference between the two parts of the film. She’s in this vacuum of the hotel room; it’s the process  of  planning,  and  everything seems  very  clear  in  a plan.  It’s like  an architectural drawing, it’s schematic. The film had to formally reflect that at that point. There weren’t a lot of colours, everything was grid-like, extra details were eliminated. The sound in this part is not really about the environment that she’s in. She’s kind of in this closed chamber, so it should be just the sound that she’s making  in  the world,  the sound of  the impact  of  her  movement on the world around her, I don’t need to hear the neighbour’s TV in the room next to her, that would be something other—it’s not about that. Whereas, once you  go out onto the street in Times Square, everything is coming in from all sides, so then how do you construct the image and the sound in a way that reflects that feeling and that sense of a girl in the midst of this crowd in Times Square. The formal decisions also came partly out of necessity—using a very loose camera simply because it was impossible to have rigidly framed shots in Times Square. So, then you adapt to it, you  transform a constraint into a decision.