JL: Exactly. That’s what you focus on. Because it’s these physical gestures that tie you   to the  world, tie  you   to other  people, and sometimes  that is what you remember   from   an  event, a  detail.   And  the  main   narrative   is   what  you remember from the retelling of the event, over and over. So you  know how the main arc goes, but it’s the little detail that grounds you. For me, it made sense to focus  on those things.  I  am  very interested  in  gestures.    In  the new film I  am working on, this very dramatic event happens between this couple while they’re travelling,  and they absolutely  have no way  of  speaking  about it. So,  half  the film is them going on with their  trip but not speaking about the elephant in the room. And the way that this event plays out and the ways they relate to each other—they do everything else but talk about it.   So it’s how their  relationship to each other’s bodies  changes  after  the event, how every gesture they make toward  each other changes,  how they position  themselves in  relation  to each other changes, and how they attempt to negotiate this kind of intimacy of one person approaching the other then withdrawing and taking turns  doing this. But mostly   this   happens   through   tiny   physical   gestures, where a  moment of reconciliation  can be somebody offering  you some dried  apricots,  or  a hand that goes into a pocket as opposed to going into your hand becomes an act of betrayal.   So   it’s   these  small   things   that  you often   remember   and  register because  you  are  responding  to the world in physical  ways. And sometimes it’s about gestures  that you have no awareness  that you’re making and that are much more revealing than what you intend to be doing. One of the nice things about film  is that you can focus on things that if you were watching  this scene from across the room you wouldn’t notice. The movement of a hand can be the heart   of   a  scene, but it   would be  completely   unapparent   to  somebody watching you at a café.