From one perspective, this autonomizing of the design process is authorial abdication. From another, it is simple honesty. What architect works alone? Isn’t every architectural signature – like that of the cinematic auteur –a scrawled over the group efforts of a corporate body: “The Office”? Isn’t the necessarily collective nature of actual design organization an enabling “constraint” on individual authorship from ground zero? Shouldn’t buildings have  credits?xxiv And what artist can ever really control the fate of the creation once it is loosed upon the world? There is ultimately no controlling the effective events a building will cooperate in producing when it is itself a basin of attraction or repulsion in the wide open fields of the city and the countryside. Is not the only truism of history that it will continue? Is not the only historical certainty change? The critical desire to impose a particular reading, or even the general approach of reading, for all the archival savvy that may inform it, can be argued to be profoundly anti-historical. The most anti-historical thing one can do is demand that anything be historical in a determined way – that anything be anything determinate – for longer than a provisional freeze-frame, for longer than a rhythmic beat in a cycle of return and regeneration. If history were not always in the process of re-becoming itself in a way that brings all historical being integrally back into question, it wouldn’t be what it is: the playing-out of all the world’s relationality; the widest chaotic expression of the infinitely complex intensity of the most encompassing of unbounded fields (the earth or cosmos, understood as nature-culture at its broadest). The instant you assert an ideal of creative control, as soon as you try to impose a program in the traditional sense, you are working to stop the ongoing process of worldly self-expression that is becoming of history. You are trying to make a private station of it – a freeze-frame with your individual signature written all over it. Okay, so you admit it won’t be the actual end-all of human history. Still, you feel that your creation should at very least have the staying power of a lasting monument to your personal genius (even authorial subjects can be modest in a pinch). The affirmative artist, for his part, stops in the name of a next beat. He makes a stay, that the collective rhythm continue. Affirmative architecture affirms even (especially) the provisional nature of its own products. As Greg Lynn set out to build what to date is his only completed building, the Korean Presbyterian Church in Queens (in collaboration with Michael McInturf and Douglas Garofalo, 1995-1999), he was advised by the client that it would likely be torn down or substantially redesigned within three or four years because the congregation was increasing so fast it would soon outgrow it. He loved it. This is not to say that an affirmative artist cannot be immodest, ambitious, or even downright egotistical, or that a critical architect necessarily has those traits. It is not really a question of character or personal qualities at all. It is a question of quality of process. Personality traits are on a level with everything else: processual parameters among others, adding spice to the expressive autonomy of the chaotic world-soup of design.xxv