Lynn built the beginnings of a response into the Korean Presbyterian Church in Queens. For reasons that will become clear, this evolutionary branch of his practice, relaying process into reception and perception, seems largely to have dead-ended. What Lynn and his collaborators did was to design the ceiling of the main sanctuary to act as a visual version of the hull of a boat. The idea was that a single form would envelop more than one optical effect. The lighting was recessed between a series of fins running laterally across the ceiling, and titled toward the pulpit. When the congregation enters the sanctuary near the pulpit, they are bathed in the light. The parisioners who move toward the back of the room to find seating may sense the angle of the light becoming more oblique, its quality more diffuse, the higher into the seating and the farther away from the pulpit they get. If they were to watch the ceiling as they filed toward the back, they would notice that at a certain point the fins seem to flip closed like a shutter. From the back, the ceiling appears smooth and the light is noticeably concentrated on the pulpit, but more subtly than by a spotlight. Since the lights themselves are out of sight, it is as if the pulpit glows with its own illumination. This inspirational effect was achieved by using iterative topological deformations to seriate the fins. The relation between the ceiling fins and the room can be understood as the relation between a topological figure and an environing, gradient force-field processually “identical” to that of the active design space from which its form was extracted. The paths of circulation into and around the room and the more and less desirable seating areas are variably weighted basins of attraction. The pulpit is a basin of repulsion for the parisioners’ circulation, but a basin of attraction for their vision. The flip of the fins that occurs for a certain probability distribution of people entering the room and ascending the steps into the higher seating areas is a separatrix toggling between two “points of illumination” in much the way the spine of the boat hull toggles between points of sail on the high seas.