My own work has been in aparallel evolution with the three practitioners written-with in this book for varying durations. In the case of the first two, the duration is long, very long. A chance introduction to pioneering digital architect Greg Lynn in the mid-1990s riveted my attention to the problem of the abstract as a practical issue. The virtual, in Proust's formula taken up by Deleuze, is "abstract yet real." So what, practically speaking, is its mode of reality? How can a design practice avail itself of that reality not only as a resource, but as a force, for its own creative process? Given that the digital is in no way synonymous with the virtual, understood in terms of formative force, what exactly is the relationship between them? In what way does the dynamic form in which a design process incorporates the abstract reality of the virtual as a creative growth factor change what we can think and say about form-generation? How does it change what we mean by form in the first place? What is the relationship between a design process that alters what we mean by form and the design products that emerge as a result of that alteration? May a process availing itself of the reality of the virtual contrive to carry the charge of the virtual into its product? In what (dyamic) trace-form? Under what conditions may a product convey into the world at large the abstract but real formative force from whose impetus it emerged, from within a particular precinct of practice? Thinking this knot of questions through Lynn's architectural design practice, goaded on by his rallying cry of "animate form," impelled my work in directions it might not otherwise have taken, enabling it to gestate concepts it might not otherwise have birthed, as it followed his process in aparallel accompaniment over many years, punctuated by intermittent discussions and crossings of paths as well as more concerted overlaps such as a two-week studio residency at his offices in Venice, California. I cannot purport that the encounters inflected Lynn's trajectory in any way. Aparallel evolution is an asymmetrical affair by nature. That the influence remained virtual on one side in no way detracts from the abstract reality of the processual encounter.