These principles of intrication came together for the art installation The Predator, a collaborative project between Lynn and the artist Fabian Marcaccio (1999-2000). Fusion was operative in several ways, feeding itself forward through the process, riding on technique. "Two disciplines," painting and architecture, "were digitally fused" into the flow of the installation's taking form.lxxv The first step was the printing of a a large-scale painting on a clear plastic sheet. Procedurally, this is the application of decoration to a surface. But processually, it goes beyond, toward the fusional, because the translucency of the sheets visually melds the color pattern with its substrate. A complexly curvilinear invaginating figure was then topologically designed. The folding of the figure on itself extruded a volume from the surface. Surface folded into structure, flatness folded out into volume, fusing the two dimensions into each other, completing the overcoming of decoration. The surface was then decomposed into over 250 sections. This was done to decrease the manufacture costs of the final form by dividing it into segments that could be easily milled and handled. The design process flowed directly into the manufacturing process by means of CNC, as foam molds were milled from the digital files. The sections of painted sheet were then vacuum-heated to fuse to form of the molds. The resulting figural elements could then be assembled into a concrete 3D construction of the topological figure of the installation. To say that the figure was "assembled" is inadequate. The fitting together of the figural elements did not just add up to a structure. "The interrelations between elements [became] intricate."lxxvi Beyond a structured aggregate of elements, this produced an interfusion: the "harmonic and dimensional interdependency of components one to another."lxxvii It is in this interdependency that the figure consists. The figure takes off from its concrete conditions of emergence into its own harmonically co-composed appearing, one with the mutual belonging to each other of its contributory elements, to collective effect. This is the final, perceptual fusion crowning the technical accomplishment of the form. The concrete figure doubles itself with an abstract surface embodying the intrication of its elements in the event of perception.