Form-finding is sometimes related to an adherence to a strong version of emergentism. It may involve the faith that the process, once virtual orienting forces are programmed in, will run all on its own, producing an end result that can just be cherry-picked by the designer. This is a bit of a caricature, but it expresses something about topological architecture: it can potentiate laziness. Lynn laments that it enabled "designers to pray, wait, invisibly guide, and/or filter the results hoping for a happy accident that might resemble a design decision."civ This "unguided design" strategy gave topological architecture a bad name, leading to a stylistic monotony that many commentators have complained about. Designs can ending up looking more like a curvaceous catalogue of the special effects that a particular, recognizable software system can produce than a creative expression. High-performance design requires that the abstract virtual forces entering into the generative field be materialized in a concrete physical field, for example a wind tunnel in aeronautic design. When Lynn criticizes the "unguided design" that he feels he himself fell for more than he should have, he is not advocating a return to the omniscient author, the architect as god of design. He is saying that the process must be tested by the outside physical forces to which its end-result will have to answer: that it be guided more tightly by a recursive relation to outside force fields, outfolding into them and integrating their guidance in return, as the form-generation narrows itself down to just the right performance envelope. In other words, he is advocating for a tighter integration between the design potentials of abstract and concrete forces, working in concert. Spuybroek, for his part, will make the strategic choice to embrace the form-finding approach, taking off from the work of Frei Otto. In Spuybroek's work, the exploration of intensive matter will ensure that his process does not fall into "unguided design." The back-and-forth between digital and analogue computing ensures the integration of abstract and concrete forces. Intensive matter is to Spuybroek what recursive filiation is to Lynn.