Processually speaking, "a word is not an expression of an inner personality; rather, inner personality is an expressed or inwardly impelled word."liv The word is inwardly impelled when "stable constructions of language" grow around an embodied locus of expression that "abstractly segregate" the series of acts channeling through that locus from others. lv The eddy of bare activity that marks the turning point where the open field's infolding unfolds is abstractly segregated, as if it did not belong to the field but only to its locus in the field. The potential that issues forth turns back on itself, more like water swirling around a drain than waves cresting in the sea. Thought-signs carrying expressive potentials are forced down the drain before they are allowed to issue forth. The inner personality is the catchment basin for these inwardly impelled thought-signs. It holds a surplus reservoir of thought-signs carrying drained potentials, turning over on each other in their piped confinement. Some will gurgle back up into the issuing of an expressive act. The expression will appear to have been locally originated, piped back up from the restricted confines of the catchment. It will be heard as issuing from a segregated locus, from separate coordinate position on the cultural map. Cultural acts will no longer be experienced as fusing relationally. They will only appear to interact: to connect extrinsically, at a segregative distance, through stable constructions that mediating expression by channeling it through regulated lines of call-and-response. Every interactive exchange will now be doubled, not by the fusional-relational abstract surface of transindividual becoming-body, but by a private subject, an inner personality "sharing" thoughts drawn from a private reservoir. The kinesthetic amoeba is muffled. It gurgles in the drain trap, gagging on its own potential. When the expressive act is segregated in this way, thinking-feeling disaggregates. The thinking pulls away from the feeling. No more lascivious amoeba thinking-feeling with pseudopod reach extending in all directions. In its place, moral, upright me. It is only "I," the stable, regulated moral person, owner of my own expressions; it is only "I" who thinks. My body and its movements are now little more than the outwardly visible positioning of my inward private thinking, mediated for public consumption by the stable constructions of the prevailing norms of expression.