In Lynn’s project for the Port Authority Bus Terminal in New York (1995),xv it goes like this. You prepare a site simulation. You translate prominent features of the site as abstract forces. This produces a dynamic map filling the screen. Noncoincident forces occupying the same space fill it with gradations. For example, you could program as regions of attraction the flow of traffic on the street in front of the terminal that arriving passengers will want to merge into and the gravitational pull that will draw them to street level. You program where the terminal stands as a region of repulsion, as a region for leaving. You end up with a gradient force-field composed of basins of attraction, a basin of repulsion, and a transition space where attractions and repulsions shade into and out of each other. In a gradient field, there are no strict divisions. Regions are vaguely bounded by thresholds of interaction belonging to more than one region. The threshold zones’ mutual belonging varies in degree,xvi according to the relative strength of the influence that the basins radiate at particular points and of the interference patterns arising from the overlap of their resident forces. The site, thus mapped, is an open, differential field. It is characterized by a gradient continuity of tension – a variegated tensile continuum – rather than sharp boundaries and discrete features. If a Euclidean space could be likened to a still shot, the gradient field programmed for the screen is the spatial equivalent of a dissolve. It is differentiated not by the frame and the cut, but by fading-outs that are simultaneously fadings-in. The usefulness of the cinematic comparison is limited, however. The field is differentiated invisibly. It is not yet a question of visual form but of unseen degrees of intensity (defined as the differential co-presence of forces that cannot cancel out each other’s operations without remainder, and therefore must be understood as integrally co-operating in the determination of any effect that may arise).xvii The field is proto-formal: a topological field.