In the zoo, the foregrounded animals are set off from the background in such a way as to put them on display as essentially visual figures. The zooological framing instructs the viewer that the premises obtaining for the animal should not be extended to the human surroundings in which the animal is exclusively included. The premises operating inside the frame are displayed as obtaining to “nature.” By contrast, the opposing premises of “culture” apply to the immediate surroundings from which the figure of the animal is set off: the human territory of the institution of the zoo. This zoo-ological framing repeats the gesture that Giorgio Agamben identifies as the founding gesture of human politics. The animal is reduced to the status of “zoe,” mere biological life under the categorical rule of the laws of nature, and in consequence excluded from the polis (or more precisely, included only as excluded). The human viewers enjoy the status of “bios”: “the form or way of living proper to an individual or a group”; a “qualified life,” recognized as a person, and endowed with the juridical status that goes along with that recognition (moral personhood) (Agamben 1995, 3). The inclusive exclusion of the zoe-ological animal is anything but paradoxical. The frame remains firmly in place. Even when the animal’s cage in the zoo includes elements recalling its natural habitat, so that something proper to the animal figure’s natural background that is foreign to the human surroundings is included in its cage, it only amounts to a “frame within a frame” that does nothing to undermine the separation between logical categories and its application of the principle of the excluded middle. The all-too-human logic of the one or the other “need[s]” the “double framing” in order “to delimit the ground against which the figures are to be perceived” (Bateson 1972, 188; emphasis in the original). If the included background is not just as well delimited as the figure itself, the separation between premises operating within the frame and those operating outside it might become blurred (a “danger” that much of modern art consciously plays with). It is necessary to double the ground to effectively frame the figure.