The child’s ludic gestures envelop an elaborate enactive analysis of the givens of the situations in which a tiger might be found, extrapolating from the postures typical of the visible corporeal form, and launching them into the improvisational movement of a lived cartography that is one with its own activity. Under what circumstances does a tiger pounce? What possesses this cat to swim? To eat a child? To climb a tree? Wait: is a tiger’s -esqueness sufficiently feline to inspire it to climb? To be determined. To be invented. When does a tiger travel to other planets? What makes a tiger fly? The child’s enactive analysis of tigritude does not start from visual forms grasped statically as postures. It departs from dynamic situations, extending the animal’s -esqueness beyond all known territory. The situations of departure are approached from a perspective that is not the tiger’s, but neither is it exactly the child’s. According to Simondon, the ludic gesture of playing animal expresses the “orientation” of the situation of departure “integrally,” as a complex. He explains that what he means by this is that the situation is grasped from the point of view of its “polarities” and “tensions” (Simondon 2005, 236; emphasis added). This is a way of saying that the analysis is affective, not (con)formal. The polarities have to do with differential roles dramatized in the play, and their potential. Each movement of a tiger child includes the negative outline of the action or reaction of other participants in the situation, even if they are only virtually there. These intaglios of other roles trace the affective composition of the experience: reciprocal ways of affecting and being affected in the situation playing itself out in action-reaction. Action-reaction: gestural point-counterpoint. The “affective complexion” of the situation discussed earlier has to do with the relative weighting of categorical affect and vitality affect. The “affective composition” is the same complexity, from the angle of how gestures compose in counterpoint. Affective complexion and affective composition are two complementary ways of analyzing the same complex. Sympathy encompasses them both.