In his discussion of the metacommunicational dimension of play, Bateson remarks that it is the reflexivity of play that invents the famous distinction between the map and the territory. It is this differentiation, he says, that creates the conditions of emergence of language. Language is distinguished by its reflexive capacity to double over on itself—to fold its operations back on themselves, to comment on what it is doing as it is doing it. This metacommunicational back-bending enables language to map its own operations, immanent to their exercise. The same verbal acts that produce the distinction between the communicational level and the metacommunicational level collapse the levels together: you can’t talk about language without using it. It is in one and the same gesture that the distinction between the levels of language is established, and that this reflexive distancing of language in relation to itself falls back into immanence, in the immediacy of the very act of enunciation that produces the distinction. This is true not only of statements that explicitly comment on the function of language. Humor is a good example of the operation of language winking at itself. But every act of language includes this reflexive element to a degree. Every statement plays a phatic role, defined as the effort to establish or continue communication. Every act of language performatively metagestures to its own communicational vocation. The difference between the levels of language is doubled by a zone of their indiscernibility. That zone is their mutual inclusion in the same act of language. The denotative and reflexive levels, communication and metacommunication, the map and the territory, are actively coimplicated in every gesture, including, paradoxically, those separating them out. The levels twist together in reciprocal presupposition, in the very act that makes their distinction, in a kind of instantaneous back-and-forth across their difference. Play, understood in its widest sense, is what invents this dynamic. In its narrower sense, as an arena of activity in its own right, it is what further develops the invention, intensely playing on the difference between the map and the territory to extract new surplus-value of life from it.