The affect that is the truth of play adds a veridical dimension to vitality affect’s power of the false. It truly qualifies the interaction under way as involving a known type of experience. It vouches for the correspondence between the two arenas in play, confirming and cementing the analogy: the same terror (albeit with a vital ludic difference). This kind of affect, concerned with adding a dimension of sameness, is what psychologists call a categorical affect. Categorical affect contributes the truth that vitality affect’s power of the false strikes with paradox. The strike of paradox renders the gesture inventively “undecidable”—in addition to being true (Deleuze 1995, 65).
Categorical affect is the what of the play that comes with the how, on a different affective register from that of the how’s vitality affect. Categorical affect is what the event is veritably about. It is the qualified content of the event of play: its “aboutness.” It occurs on a different register from the dynamic ludic form of the performance that enacts it, as an aspect of strictly the same gesture. Vitality affect and categorical affect are co-occurring aspects of the play act. Vitality affect corresponds to the -esqueness of the act: its manner. Categorical affect is what the act manneristically confirms itself to be about. It is what is commonly called “emotion.”24
The categorical affect taken up in play is the one that is most salient in the interactions of the analog arena of activities being played upon. There is no combat without fear. Neither is there predation without terror. Fear and terror will therefore truly figure in the corresponding games. The same affect will figure on either side of the analogical gap opened by the play. Its figuring on both sides bridges the space between. The situation in all its facets will be bathed by that experiential quality, everywhere felt. The play nip says “this is not a bite” (this act does not denote what it would denote). At the same time, it says categorically: “this is nevertheless a situation of fear.” This affective truth is the guarantor of the play partner’s enthusiasm of the body. Without it, the game would lack intensity. The categorical affect in play is the leavening that allows the vitality affect to rise. Without it, the ludic gesture’s force of induction would be negligible. The transformation-in-place that carries the force of the game would fall flat. The same categorical affect perfuses the event, but not in a homogeneous way. It is apportioned asymmetrically. It is distributed differentially, in the affectation of roles: scarer/scared, hunter/hunted, quarry/pursuer. The situation may well be one of fear on all sides, but each participant carries the fear according to a particular angle of differential insertion into the situation. The roles corresponding to the angles of insertion enact differentials of power. We saw earlier how the vitality affect signed by the -esqueness of the ludic dramatization carried transsituational potentials straddling distant existential territories. It was a sign of potential. Categorical affect, for its part, is a sign of power. The two are inseparable, like two sides of the same gestural coin.