In a nonplay situation, categorical affect registers the imperative to live the event in the dominant experiential key in which the situation customarily unfolds. In a nonplay situation of fear, we directly feel the imperative to fight or flee. Every fiber of our existence is interpellated. Inducted into the coming event, we brace ourselves and take the plunge. We are under obligation to act, marshaling all our strengths and capacities, in the name of our appetite for life to be able to continue on its self-driving path to the future. Our dawning actions absorb the given categorical affect, immediately transducing it into vectors of activity anchored in the situation and oriented to the event just beginning. This transduction of the content qualifying the situation into a relaunching of anchored and oriented expressive activity is the production of the event’s corporeality. What play plays upon is this corporeality, ludically reinduced. Play registers the imperative to live the event in the dominant experiential tone of the played-upon situation, as taken up into the transsituational movement characteristic of play. It refracts the absorption of categorical affect. It is worth pausing here to note two points. First, as the example of fear indicates, the “enthusiasm of the body” that is the expression of play’s vitality affect cannot be plotted in any one-to-one relationship to a particular categorical affect. Affective vitality is intense, but is not necessarily “happy.” Play, as Huizinga points out, is not reducible to “fun” in any categorical sense, certainly not to the sense of bland enjoyment the word has taken on in its contemporary usage. Second, it is also necessary to use the distinction between “play” situations and “nonplay” situations advisedly. As the discussion of the reciprocally potentializing circuit between play and combat demonstrated, play and nonplay are not mutually exclusive categories. Like everything in this account, they are in a dynamic relation of mutual inclusion. They are coimplicated processual correlates. This is not a conclusion, but a starting point: a problematization. The mode of mutual inclusion must be rethought in every case. Given a ludic gesture, what variant of mutual inclusion it produced is the problem to be
addressed.