Many  of these  questions came  to the  fore  when,  some  years  ago,  I came  upon Fernand Deligny’s work. He was an unclassifiable conjuror who engaged for years in daring experimentation with the autistic, at the margins of institutions. He went against the  grain  of practices prevalent in the  late  1960s, be they  psychiatric or psychoanalytic, pedagogical or simply institutional. During a brief  period at  La Borde’s  clinic  in  France,  where he  met  Guattari, he  grew  dissatisfied with  its treatment practices, notwithstanding the novelty of institutional psychotherapy, treating the institution before being able to treat patients. Deligny  left and adopted an autistic child,  christening him  Janmaire, and  moved to the  Cévennes region. There he started a unique mode  of communal living and coexistence with autistic children, in the  company of adults not  specialized in this  area—where what  he later  called  the “tentative” was born.  The tentative is not a project,  an institution, a  program,  a  doctrine,  or   a  utopia.  It’s   something  fragile   and   persistent, comparable to  a mushroom in  the  plant  kingdom. Eluding ideologies, norms, moral   imperatives, it  can  only  survive if  it  doesn’t   establish a  finality.   This tentative has no purpose, I refer to the tentative that  can rely on habit,  which  can favour the inadvertent, the event: together with the autistic and in open air, cooking, washing dishes, chopping firewood, baking  bread, putting the goats out to graze, were   all  part   of  a  basic  and   customary  routine. Amid   that   reiteration  of  the everyday, the  drifts,   wanderings, and  irruptions appear, the  unique gestures where each individual can take initiative to trace unexpected lines. A tentative is comparable to a raft. Pieces of wood are loosely  joined  together so that  when the waves  come, the water can cut across the gaps between the logs and avoid  turning over. The raft is not a barricade, but “with all that  was left of the barricades, rafts could  be built”  (Deligny  2007: 23).