mail every day to verify if his friends had realized he had disappeared, if they were looking  for him, if he was missed. That is, it was the opposite of any such disappearance. It  was  an  inspection  of  his  presence in  the  world. Now,   the opposite was  happening to me  there.  But what  I felt amid  the  group was  only possible with  those  people, in that  Ueinzz  atmosphere with  its warmth, support, anarchy, and  voices—a  network of connections where disconnection is allowed, legitimate, and part of it. I found out that the directors became restless and at times angry with  that  apparently passive, unconnected, useless  attitude. This was from the  perspective of a performance, the  putting together of a piece  and  theatrical challenges. But I wasn’t  giving  in. One cannot die in any old place. If I did that  at the university I would get fired or hospitalized, if I did  that  in the street  I would be taken in, at home or alone it wouldn’t be possible. To die for some time knowing there is the buzz of life around—that’s what  allowed me to “let go.” We’ve lost our right to die, to disappear, to disconnect, to subtract ourselves from the imperatives of communication or interlocution or reciprocity. The tyranny of sociality— socialitarianism—it’s   one   of   our   century’s   plagues  against  which   Deligny protested like a visionary, preaching silent contiguity, not noiseocracy, not “reciprocation” (the  “eye  to eye”  that  autistic people can’t  stand, the  question- answer from which  the vacancy of spoken language protects them).  Therein  lies a regime  of  coexistence  in   which   it  isn’t   necessary  to   guarantee  fulfilment, continuity, accumulation. But it is precisely because one can die that  one can live, because nothing needs  to happen, something may happen. That an actor leaving a rehearsal is jokingly approached by an actress, “Do you have permission to leave? Have  you  signed the form?”  And  that  the dialogue can become  the involuntary seed  of a Kafkaesque scene in which  for each  movement each person is made  to fill in a form  with  their  details.  Life becomes,  precisely, an incessant filling  in of details,  and  everywhere we are  urged to account for everything. Here’s  a scene that  arises from chance  at that  precise  moment, gaining strength in the process  of putting together a Kafka-inspired piece,  and  which  attunes with  humour to the generalized bureaucratization, digitization, and codification of contemporary existence.