Perhaps what  is at play in this series I’ve just exposed, from the right to die and to disconnect to the obligation of accounting for everything, relates  to Maurizio Lazzarato’s (2014) recent  thoughts on the notion of demobilization. We know political  mobilization, with all its imperative courtship: a state of alert, connection, availability, activism, and  submission. Now,  as paradoxical as it may  seem, since Jünger’s  Total Mobilization written in the 1930s, where he reported a new  state  of the world where all of man’s and  Earth’s energies were  in constant mobilization, whether  in   capitalism,  communism  (and   afterwards,  Nazism),  for   war   or production  purposes,  minor    voices   plead  for   a   pause,  a   suspension,  an interruption, a break  on the blind  train  of infinite  progress. That’s true  for Walter Benjamin,   but   also  for  Paul   Virilio   or  Eduardo  Viveiros   de   Castro.   Hence Lazzarato’s insistence on articulating a political  mobilization in tandem with civilizational demobilization, a deceleration, or  only  a change in the  quality of movement, as Brian Massumi put it, so that the political  mobilization won’t mirror the degree of arrest  and  vampirism of the available energies imposed by the prevailing regime. In my view, Deligny  functioned entirely within that register, in his refusal  of wanting to include, socialize,  entertain, reciprocate, cure, and  make productive the autistic people he looked  after.  That refusal  didn’t imply  political resignation. Deligny  was a longstanding member of the Communist Party,  as paradoxical as  that  may  seem.  He  was  radically critical  of  all  institutions of enclosure  with   which   he  lived   during  the  war   and,   more   broadly,  with   a civilization that  produced war,  enclosure, and  the  people capable  of  this.  For Deligny,  a civilization that obliges us to do all the time stands against his injunction to act, which  is devoid of utility  and  finality.  Remember the filmmaker Straub’s phrase: “The present moment, that  is stolen  from us in the name  of progress, this fleeting   present is  irreplaceable  …  we  are  ransacking human  feelings   as  we ransack the planet, and  the price  we ask people to pay  for progress or for well- being  is too high,  and  unjustifiable” (Albera  2001). Hence  the curious conception about  what constitutes a political  film for him. “The militant film captivates people