Arriving back home  in São Paulo  where he no longer  found a place  for himself, Alexandre immediately went  back to wander the streets.  I was  told that  he went to a friend’s bar where he got drunk on cachaça. The police found him unconscious in a street  far from  his neighbourhood and  brought him  to a public  psychiatric service.   There   Alexandre  stepped  onto   his   via  crucis:  heavyweight  nurses, agitation, screams, he is strapped to a bed as was customary centuries ago. Pedro França  and  Ana Goldstein from our company visit him and  find him upright, his body still strapped to the bed, an untameable, howling King Kong. To the surprise of all the scared  bystanders in the hospital, Alexandre calms down as soon as the two move  closer to him. Subsequently, in our absence,  he was medicated heavily and  transferred to a general hospital “for clinical exams.”  God knows what  they did  to him in the intensive care unit  during the first night,  after  a visit by Paula Francisquetti who  found him  pumped with  tranquilizers, his  hands and  feet strapped to the bed, abandoned in the dark.  I’m not sure whether he died  during my visit the next day—looking asleep—or whether he had  already been dead for hours without anybody at the hospital noticing. The important thing  was that  he didn’t bother anyone any longer. Eduardo Lettière was right to say that Alexandre wouldn’t have died  if he had slept downtown that night,  on Praça da Sé where he often went  and where he had friends among the homeless and the prophets of the street  who  would have  paid  more  attention to what  he said  than  the nurses and doctors at the public  hospital. In short,  this was institutional, psychiatric, medical and  perhaps even familial  murder. People  didn’t want  to bother with  the level of suffering and  anxiety  that  he carried in himself  or the noise he made—it’s so uncivilized to  disturb a  calm  and   orderly environment. Life  has  to  continue without trouble in our cities and especially in hospitals, even though the latter are supposed to  care  for  and   attend to  pain   and   not  silence   those   who   suffer. According to Erika Inforsato, Alexandre was a bomb  of a man,  but they managed to make  him  implode on time.  Or according to Alejandra Riera,  with  whom we did  a number of projects  in which  Alexandre had  a strong presence: “He  was  a deserter, like many  of us, but in his own  way.  He needed to make  himself  heard. Not to say something very articulate like a philosopher or to state something just