to the conjunctions as well as the disjunctions.” I think  that  Isabelle’s aversion to the  usual  academic practices is rooted in her  acceptance of Deleuze’s  assertion that critique, if it is to be eventful, must  be an “immanent” critique. One of things this means  is that  everything that  enters  the interaction must  do so actively,  not by proxy,  as represented, simply spoken for, or even transmitted (in short,  not as an  already constituted content). It must  become  equal  to  the  coming  event  by performing itself in and  for that  particular assembly, so it enters  actively  into the constitution of what  happens as a co-creative factor.  Its “critique” is then  not the opinions or  judgements  we  have  of  it.  It  takes  place  on  an  entirely different plane.  The critique is not  an opinion or a judgment but  a dynamic “evaluation” that  is lived  out  in situation. It concerns the  tendencies that  the  introduction of that    factor    actively    brings    into   the   situation.  It   is   the   actual,    eventful consequences of how  that  factor plays  out, relationally with  any number of other factors   that  also  activate tendentially,  and   in  a  way  that  is  utterly singular, specific  to those  situated co-expressions. That is why  Deleuze speaks  of critique as a “clinical”  practice:  it is the  diagnostic art of following the  dynamic signs  of these   unfoldings,  which   can   then   be  actively   modulated  from   within  the situation, immanent to  it.  The  modulation can  take  be  augmenting (taking   a certain  tendency to the  limit),  diverting (deflecting it into  a different tendency), transmutational (interacting with  other  tendencies in a way  that  invents a whole new  direction as a kind  of surplus-value of interaction) – or, it can lead to a clash that  stops  the process. Any furtherance, convergence, becoming or blockage that happens,  actually  happens:  it’s  an  event.   This  kind   of  eventful,  affirmative critique is very different from criticism,  or what  I would call negative critique. In a  negative  “critical”  situation,  rather  than   asking   the   factors   entering  the situation to be “true” to the coming  event  (asking  that  they  actually take the risk of putting themselves into  play,  accepting that  they  may  exit the  event  having fundamentally changed), it is the people entering the situation who  are asked  to be true  to what  they represent – their  preexisting positionings, as encapsulated in already arrived-at opinion and  judgment. These necessarily enter  the situation as generalities, because their  pre-encapsulation prepares them  for representation in any similar  situation and  not just the one at hand. The only singularity is the way