in which  the legitimacy of the general representation in question is performed. In other    words,   the    only    difference   affirmed   is   rhetorical,   and    what    it fundamentally asserts  is the personal prowess, in that  situation, of the defender. It’s all about  legitimation and  ascendancy. This leads,  in the best of scenarios, to blockage. Blockage is the best of all because the interaction is formulated a priori (if only  “humorously”) in terms  of a war  of position assuming an enemy-friend distinction the playing out of which  takes the form of a victory  or defeat.  If there is no blockage, it means  that one set of positions has “won” and  another has been disarmed or annihilated. It’s a war  of “disqualification” in Isabelle’s terms.  And whichever way it goes, it is a non-event, because the most that  might  change is a reversal of fortunes within a pregiven positional structure. Deleuze’s belief that debate and  conversation are  anathema to  thought, to  the  extent  that  thought allies  itself  with  emergence and  becoming, I think  relates  to this.  Debate  is the war  of  annihilation practiced as  a  form  of politeness (where the  annihilation remains symbolic). I entirely agree  that  there  are  many  academic meetings that are  far  more  “critical” than  Housing  the Body is proposed to be. That  is why  I, endorsing  Isabelle’s   attitude,  tend    to   avoid    them    as   much    as   possible. Responding to Isabelle’s challenge in no way  means  adopting a fake attitude of harmony. It doesn’t mean  wishfully seeing  only conjunction and  denying disjunction.  But it does,  I think,  mean  launching into  the  event  from  a certain kind  of conjunction:  a set of shared initial  conditions that  is experienced by all participants, putting them  on the same  event  “plane,” as Christine put  it, so that whatever disjunctions occur do just that – actually occur—rather than  being represented and  legitimated in proxy  war. The conditions that the organizing committee has set – no transmission of content (no presentation of pre-completed work),  a common set of challenging readings, a certain  pre-collectivization of tendencies entering the  situation in  the  form  of open  “platforms for  relation” ready for activation, etc – are meant to be techniques for creating a shared frame for the  activation of differences, as creative co-factors  for what  will  become  the multiple  singularity  of  this   event.   The   idea   is  close   to  that   of  structured improvisation in music,  where enabling constraints are put  in place, not in order to    impose   sameness   but    quite     the    contrary   to    foster     unforeseeable