differentiations. The  idea  is  not  at  all  that  everyone will  arrive   at  the  same conclusions, or even  to “agree  to differ.”  If successful, the  enabling constraints have  placed the  coming  event  on an entirely different plane  than  that  of debate or  discussion. Rather,  the  hope  is that  the  ways  in  which  we  differ  will  pass together  through  the   generative  filter   of  the   enabling  frame—that  we   will continue to  differ—all   the  more  so—but  together, for  the  moment at  least,  in creatively “impolite” but not disqualificatory ways.  The hope  is that  together we can  invent new  modes of academic and  artistic  encounter that  don’t  endlessly reproduce  the  same   critical   debate  model, and   that   those   new   ways   might contribute, in  some  small  way,  to  a  change in  the  culture of  intellectual and artistic  “exchange.” I was  truly  touched by the  generosity and  openness of last year’s  participants,  and   by  their   willingness  to  set  aside   the  rhetorical  war posture. That  I consider “important.” I deeply appreciated people’s willingness to take the risk of entering a situation where it was clear that whatever was going to transpire could  only transpire if they actively  brought it to fruition – that  there was no product being  offered  to them  – the only product being  the process they would make  together. I learned a great  deal from Dancing the Virtual, and  what  I took  away   energized me  in  a  way  conventional  conferences never   do.  I  am looking forward to  this  year’s  event  with  great  expectation, knowing that  last year’s momentum is poised, due  to many  people’s efforts  and  talents, to make  a new  event  of itself, with  all sorts  of emergent differences due  to the  passage of time,  the  playing out  in the  meantime of off-site  interactions flowing from  the last  event,   and   the  addition of  new   participants  who   will  bring   their   own tendencies and talents creatively and affirmatively into the mix.