The Argument from Synesthesia. The hinging of the proprioceptive on the visual in the movement of orientation is a synesthetic interfusion. It is not the only one. Each side, for example, enters into its own synesthetic fusion with the tactile: a determinate, positioned sight is a potential touch; the tropism of proprioceptive twisting-and-turning is assisted by potential bumps and the tactile feedback from the soles of our feet. There are many other synesthetic conjunctions, involving all the senses in various combinations, including smell and hearing. Clinical synesthesia is when a hinge-dimension of experience, usually lost to active awareness in the sea-change to adulthood, retains the ability to manifest itself perceptually. In synesthesia, other-sense dimensions become visible, as when sounds are seen as colors. This is not vision as it is thought of cognitively. It is more like other-sense operations at the hinge with vision, registered from its side of the threshold. Synesthetic forms are dynamic. They are not mirrored in thought; they are literal perceptions. They are not reflected upon; they are experienced as events. Synesthetes who gain a measure of willful control over them still perceive them as occurrences in the world, not contents of their heads. They describe summoning them into perception, then moving toward or around them. Synesthetic forms are used by being summoned into present perception then recombined with an experience of movement. And they are useful. They serve as memory aids and orientation devices. Since they work by calling forth a real movement-experience, they retain a privileged connection to proprioception. This is not cue-based form-and-configuration vision. Although synesthetic forms are often called “maps,” they are less cartographic in the traditional sense than “diagrammatic” in the sense now entering architectural discourse.vi They are lived diagrams based on already lived experience, revived to orient further experience. Lived and relived: biograms might be a word for them than “diagrams.”