The Argument from the Facedness of Experience. Whether you are clinically synesthetic or not, wherever you are you are ever facing the continuation of your experience. You are always heading onward. It is relatively easy to say where any given form or configuration that comes into focus along way is located. But where is the heading itself? That is the same as asking, where is the ongoing of experience? It is not in any recognized thing or place. It is in them all, but in each under a different heading. Experience, as it happens, is in difference-of-heading before it goes in any determinate direction. The space of continuing experience is a pure space of differential heading: an indeterminate vector space infusing each step taken in Euclidean space with a potential for having been otherwise directed. The whole of vector space is compressed, in potential, into every step. Taking into consideration the feedback of higher forms discussed above, our concept of this intensive vector space of experience must be broad enough to encompass headings toward qualitatively different planes (habit, memory; vision, proprioception; color, language).
The Argument from Doubling. In synesthesia, remembering is a perceptual event. It is a reactivation of a biogram for purposes of reaccess. If an event-perception is faced, then when a biogram is reaccessed isn’t the synesthete facing a previous facing? Hasn’t experience doubled back on itself like a Möbius strip?
	
This is precisely how the most renowned synesthete in the literature describes his exemplary experience (exemplary, because the synesthesia of Luria’s patient S. was so intense that he enjoyed total recall). His biograms were very different from MP’s; no two synesthetes generate the same dynamic forms. S.’s biograms were built explicitly on a shifting proprioceptive ground. They came in “walks.” He would store biograms as “objects” deposited at a particular turn along a meandering walk. There they would remain as mnemonic landmarks that would come into sight when approached. When an object became visible, the component sense-threads could be pulled apart to yield an astounding range of determinate word and number memories that had been woven into them. The walks themselves were biograms, of a configurational kind. They were composed of a number of synesthetic objects stored in vicinity to one another. They had to be reaccessed in order, following the proprioceptive layout of the walk. Each object-form had a background, for example a wall or corner or other feature. These combined into whole itinerant geographies. To find a memory, S. would have to enter the right geography and then move ahead proprioceptively, cross-checking against his mnemonic progress against visual landmarks until he reached the one he needed to unthread. The eventfulness of the biograms is illustrated by the fact that he could make mistakes. Significanty, the mistakes were not cognitive errors. They were involuntary tricks of perception. For example, he might accidentally store a bright biogrammatic object against a white wall, and when he passed that way again he might overlook the memory because it blended in. The involuntary had failed to be elicited.