To the question of what founds a formation like a sport, or what its conditions of existence are, an obvious answer would be "the rules of the game." But in the history of sport, as with virtually every collective formation, the codification of rules follows the emergence of an unformalized proto-sport exhibiting a wide range of variation. The formal rules of the game capture and contain the variation. They frame the game, retrospectively, describing its form as a set of constant relations between standardized terms. A codification is a framing derivative that arrogates to itself the role of foundation. It might be argued that all foundations are of this nature: ex post facto regulatory framings rather than effective foundings. Once they apply themselves, the rules do effectively frame and regulate the play, taking precedence. Their precedence is retrospective, or fictional, but effective. It has all the reality of a formation of power, of which usurpation might be argued to be the model--usurpation of variation.
	If the rules are ex post facto captures that take precedence, what do they take it from? From the process from which the game actually emerged, and continues to evolve, to the extent that circumstances arise that force modifications of the rules. The foundational rules follow and apply themselves to forces of variation that are endemic to the game, and constitute the real conditions of the game's emergence. The rules formally determine the game, but do not condition it (they are its formal cause, not its efficient cause).
	So what is the condition? Quite simply, a field. No field, no play, and the rules lose their power. The field is what is common to the proto-game and the formalized game, as well as to informal versions of the game coexisting with the official game, and any subsequent evolution of the game. The field-condition that is common to every variation is unformalized, but not unorganized. It is minimally organized as a polarization. The field is polarized by two attractors: the goals. All movement in the game will take place between the poles, and will tend toward one or the other. They are physical limits. The play stops when the ball misses or hits the goal. The goals do not exist for the play except tendentially, as inducers of directional movement of which they mark the outside limits (winning or losing). The goals polarize the space between them. The field of play is an in-between of charged movement. It is more fundamentally a field of potential than a substantial thing, or object. As things, the goals are signs for the polar attraction that is the motor of the game. They function to induce the play. The literal field, the ground with grass stretching between the goals, is also an inductive limit-sign, rather than a ground in any foundational sense. The play in itself is groundless and limitless, taking place above the ground-limit and between the goal-limits. 
	Put two teams on a grassy field with goals at either end, and you have an immediate, palpable tension. The attraction of which the goals and ground are inductive signs is invisible and nonsubstantial: it is a tensile force-field activated by the presence of bodies within the signed limits. The polarity of the goals defines every point in the field and every movement on the field in terms of force--specifically, as the potential motion of the ball, and of the teams, towards the goal. When the ball nears a goal, the play reaches a pitch of intensity. Every gesture of the players is supercharged, toward a goal or toward repelling one. The ball is charged to the highest degree with potential movement toward the goal, by its position on the field, by the collective tending of the team homing in for a score. The slightest slip or miscalculation will de-potentialize that movement. When that happens, a release of tension as palpable as its earlier build-up undulates across the field.
	If the goal-posts, ground, and presence of human bodies on the field induce the play, the ball catalyzes it. The ball is the focus of every player, and the object of every gesture. Superficially, when a player kicks the ball, the player is the subject of the movement, and the ball is the object. But if by subject we mean the point of unfolding of a tendential movement, then it is clear that the player is not the subject of the play. The ball is. The tendential movements in play are collective, they are team movements, and their point of application is the ball. The ball arrays the teams around itself. Where and how it bounces differentially potentializes and de-potentializes the entire field, intensifying and de-intensifying the exertions of the players and the movements of the team. The ball is the subject of the play. To be more precise, the subject of the play is the displacements of the ball, and the continual modifications of the field of potential its displacements effect. The ball, as a thing, is the object-marker of the subject: its sign. Like the goal and the ground, the ball as a substantial term doubles the subject of the play, which itself is invisible and nonsubstantial, the catalysis-point of a force-field, a charge-point of potential.
	Since the ball is nothing without the continuum of potential it doubles; since its effect is dependent on the physical presence of a multiplicity of other bodies and objects of various kinds; since the parameters of its actions are regulated by the application of rules; for all these reasons we will call the catalytic object-sign a part-subject. The part-subject catalyzes the play as a whole, but is not itself a whole. It attracts and arrays the players, defining their effective role in the game, and the overall state of the game at any given moment, by the potential movement of the players with respect to it. The ball moves the players. The player is the object of the ball. True, the player kicks the ball. But the ball must be considered in some way an autonomous actor because the global game-effects its displacements produce can be produced by no other game element. When the ball moves, the whole game moves with it. Its displacement is more than a local movement: it is a global event. 
	If the ball is a part-subject, each player is its part-object. The ball does not address the player as a whole. It addresses the player's eyes, and ears and touch, through separate sensory channels. These separate sensory impressions are synthesized, not into a subjective whole, but into a state of intensive readiness for reflex response: they are synthesized into an actionability. The response is expressed through a particular body part, in the case of soccer, the foot. The ball addresses the player in a limited way, as a specific kind of actionability flowing through the player's body following very particular channels. The kick is indeed an expression, but not of the player. It is an "ex-pression" of the ball, in the etymological sense, since the ball's attractive catalysis "draws out" the kick from the player's body and defines its expressive effect on the globality of the game. The player's body is a node of expression: not a subject of the play but a material channel for the catalysis of an event affecting the global state of the game. Whereas the ball is a catalyzer, and the goals are inducers, the node of expression is a transducer: a channel for the transformation of a local physical movement into another energetic mode, that of potential energy. Through the kick, human physicality transduces into the insubstantiality of an event, releasing a potential that reorganizes the entire field of potential movement.
	The players, in the heat of the game, are drawn out of themselves. Any player who is conscious of himself as he kicks, misses. Self-consciousness is a negative condition of the play. The players' reflective sense of themselves as subjects is a source of interference that must be minimized for the play to channel smoothly. When a player readies a kick, she is not looking at the ball so much as she is looking past it. She is reflexively (rather than reflectively) assessing the potential movement of the ball. This involves an instantaneous calculation of the positions of all the players of the field in relation to each other and in relation to the ball and both goals. This is by nature a vague perception more than a conscious calculation, because there are too many terms to be reflectively processed, and each term is a variable rather than a constant. Since the players are in perpetual motion, their relation to each other, the ball, and the goals is also in constant flux, too complex to measure, only registerable as heightenings and releases of eddies of intensity in the midst of which openings for the potential movement of the ball appear. The player must let his trained body synthesize his separate perceptual impressions into a global sense of the intensity. The sensing of the intensity, will be vague but goal-directed in such a way as to draw a maximally exact reflex expression from him. He looks past the ball--directly sensing the potential as such, as an immeasurable but actionable degree of intensity affecting the polar continuum of the field. The player must pare himself down to a channeling of the play. The player's subjectivity is disconnected, as he enters the field of potential in and as its sensation. For the play, the player is that sensation. The sensation is a channeling of field-potential into local action, from which it is again transduced into a global reconfiguration of the field of potential. Sensation is the mode in which potential is present in the perceiving body. The player does not play on the ground. He looks past it and past the ball, to the field of potential--which is insubstantial, real but abstract. He plays the field of potential directly.
	It would be a mistake to equate the reflex with the purely physical. Perception is never only impression. It is already composite. Studding each impression are shards of intentions and conscious memories, most presently bearing on pre-game strategy--shimmers of reflection and language. These do not frame the perception, so much as they enter its field, partialized by the separation of the sensory channels in-gathering the impressions they ride. Sharded elements re-mix to shared effect. Toward that effect, in that sensation, a heterogeneity of levels contract into the body, from which they reissue in an action--in a unity of movement through which their multiplicity is singularly expressed. The physicality of the reflex is the shared passage through the body of a disparateness of elements and levels. The "rather than" reflective of the reflexive does not mark an exclusion or opposition, so much as a conversion. The reflex action is the differentiation of human actuality, including elements of reflection and language, re-channeled through the body. The body figures not as an object, one substantial element among others, but as a part-object, a conversion channel, a transducer--of the substantial elements of mixture, along with the shards of already-abstracted elements they carry, into sensed potential. 
	Potential sensed, the player plays its field directly. Potential is the space of play. Or would be, were it a space. It is a modification of a space. The space is the literal field, the ground between the goals. Any and every movement of a player or the ball in that space modifies the distribution of potential movement over it. Each such modification is an event. The play is the event-dimension doubling the empirical event-space in which the the substantial terms in play physically intermix. The dimension of the event is above the ground, between the goals, between the players, and around the ball on all sides. It is that through which the substantial elements interrelate and effect global transformations. It is nothing without them. They are inert and disconnected without it, a collection of mere things, no less isolated for the shards of reflection and language they ferry. It is the event-dimension of potential--not the system of language and the operations of reflection it enables--that is the effective dimension of the interrelating of elements, of their  belonging to each other. That belonging is a dynamic corporeal "abstraction": the "drawing off" (transductive conversion) of the corporeal into its dynamism (=the event). Belonging is unmediated, and under way, never already-constituted. It is the openness of bodies to each other and to what they are not--the incorporeality of the event. In direct channeling. That is, in a directional channeling: ontological vector. The transductive conversion is an ontological vector that in-gathers a heterogeneity of substantial elements, along with the already-constituted abstractions of language (=meaning), and delivers them together to change.
	Although the event-dimension of potential is in-between, it is in no sense a hybrid or mixture. It is inseparable from, and irreducible to, the collection of substantial and already-abstracted elements through whose inductive, catalytic and transductive mixing its potential is released and reconfigured. The field of potential is the effect of the contingent intermixing of elements, but is logically and ontologically distinct from them. In itself, it is composed not of parts or terms in relation, but of modulations, local modifications of potential that globally reconfigure. The field of potential is exterior to the elements or terms in play, but is not inside something other than the potential it is. It is immanent. It is the immanence of the substantial elements of the mix to their own continual modulation. The field of immanence is not the elements in mixture. It is their becoming. In becoming is belonging. 
	It is only apparently that the players relate to each other empirically as discrete terms, mediated by reflection and language. They relate to each other in their collective becoming, as a distinct ontological level doubling their substantial being. It is this collective becoming that is the condition of a formation like a sport, common to the proto-game, the official game, unofficial versions coexisting with it, and subsequent variations of them all. Although inseparable from the empirical elements of whose contingent mixing it is an effect, the field of immanence is super-empirical--in excess over the substantiality of already-constituted terms. As a dimension of becoming gathering proto-, present, and post-, it is also transhistorical--uncontainable in the closure of any particular historical moment. It is super-empirical and transhistorical without being foundational. For it is the contingent effect of that which it conditions. This is a logical circularity, but it is not a vicious one, because it is also an ontological circuit around an opening: a phase shift between the substantial and the potential without which the movement would be simple repetition of pre-given terms entering pre-authorized, pre-meant relations. The circuit is between the substantial--or more broadly the actual (including the already-constituted abstractions of meaning)--and the potential. The phase-shift of the substantial to the potential is the opening through which empirical contingency--the intermixing of already-constituted bodies, things, and signs--expresses itself as coordinated becoming. This expression is the effective condition of collective change (open-ended belonging).
	Change is emergent relation, the becoming sensible, in empirical conditions of mixture, of a modulation of potential. Post-emergence, there is capture and containment. Rules are codified and applied. The intermixing of bodies, objects, and signs is standardized and regulated. Becoming becomes reviewable and writable: becoming becomes history.
	It is only by leaving history to re-enter the immanence of the field of potential that change can occur. Even in a codified and regulated sport, there is an opening for this. 
It is called style. Style is what makes the player. What makes a player a star is more than perfection of technique. Technical perfection merely makes a player most competent. To technical perfection the star adds something extra. Perhaps a way of catching the eye of players on the opposite team to make them self-conscious and throw them off. Perhaps a feint added to every kick. Or an imperceptible spin. Little extras. Small but effective ways of skewing the potential movements composing the field. The star player is one who modifies expected mechanisms of channeling field-potential. The star plays against the rules. But not by breaking them. He plays around them, adding minute, unregulated contingencies to the charged mix. She adds "free" variations: "free" in the sense of modulatory actions unregulated or unsubsumed by the rules of the game. A star style is always a provocation to the referee, who must scrutinize and judge barely tangible extras that are very little separately, but as disproportionately effective channelings of potential add up to an advantage. If the provocation goes too far, new rules need to be invented to subsume the modulaton devices. An example, from a different sport, is the invention of styles of power-serving in tennis that have brought the sport to the verge of crisis--a crisis of boredom at one-shot vollies--and has led to calls for a reform of the sport. The crisis was the result in the 1970s and 1980s of the confrontation between two individual star styles going by the names McEnroe and Borg. 
	It is through stylistic free variations that an already-constituted sport evolves. The "individuality" of the style is a collective individuation: it is a "collective" individuation in its absolute dependence on an intermixing of the multiple and heterogeneous elements of the sport; and it is a collective "individuation" in the sense that it is the motor of the sport's unique evolution. A style is a germinal individuation of the sport. The single body channeling the evolutionary potential is a node of expression of a collective becoming. A body has style only in and through its role as part-object. The star is the one who most effectively melds with the collectivity, towards its becoming. That becoming is inextricably aesthetic (stylistic) and ontological (emergent) [Guattari]. 
	The mention of the referee sniffing after little extras might be seen as a back-door admission that the rules of the game are indeed determining. Is not the referee on the field, applying rules and regulating movements? Doesn't it all come back to the rock-solid foundation of the rule of law? 
	Look at what a referee actually does. A referee stops the action. The referee stops and reflects. The intervention of the referee is an interruption that opens the way for an application of the rules. A different kind of opening, onto an inverse movement. The rules, it was argued above, are retrospective. They are a codifying follow-up to emergence that folds back on becoming. The operation of the application is to isolate a move in a way that pins responsibility for its sensible effects on a single playing body. What the move and the body are being isolated from is the immanence of the field of potential. The disciplinary stoppage momentarily depotentializes the field in a way that makes its intensive elements appear to the trained perceiver as separate terms in extrinsic relation to one another. Channelings of global modulations of the field whose conditions are thoroughly collective are reduced to local moves of individual origin and deviant effect. It is now the player, not the sport, that is individualized, by the disciplinary, regulatory, group-authorized and group-recognized application of the rules. This individualization is a fiction--an effectively regulating fiction--predicated on a stoppage of the play. The rules of the game and their application are transcendent to the play. It is the intervention of a transcendent operation in the continual variation of the field of immanence that makes the nodes of expression appear as discrete, substantial terms in extrinsic relation to each other. From the point of view of the rules, the codifiable form of that extrinsic relating determines the intrinsic properties of the play: fair or foul. The field of immanence is interrupted by an operation of transcendence that institutes a regime of intrinsic-extrinsic relationality predicated on the interruption of immanent relationality. The authorized set of movements between already-constituted terms is reaffirmed. The dimension of the play is reduced to a repetitive space of disciplinary regulation. Change, variation, is captured and contained. Immanent modulation of the play cedes to an overaching model of the game.
	The capture and containment is not simply negative. Its very transcendence becomes a productive element in the mix whose effect is the field of immanence. The rules becomes an integral part of the play, without ceasing to be a transcendent intervention. Just as in reflex language becomes body, in play transcendence as such becomes-immanent. It circuits into immanence. The rules are a preservative organ of the field of play. They are the condition of the play's identity across its serial repetitions in disparate times and places. The positivity of the rules is in preservation. This is also, precisely, their negativity. Codifying capture cuts both ways. Negatively, it stops and contains variation. Positively, it preserves the game for repetition. If the game were not repeated, variation would never have a chance to restart. No occasion would arise for variation to reassert itself. From one point of view (the rule-makers' and referees') variation is a departure from identity. From another point of view, identity is a moment (a productive lapse) in the continuation of variation. The second point of view is the creative, or aesthetic. Except that the creative is not a point of view. It is not a perspective on the game, or on anything. It is amidst. A dynamic midst. The being of the collective middle: belonging in becoming. Perspective is the sign of a separation from change. It is a mark of codifying capture: a demarcation of the space of interruption. A perspective is an anti-event-space. In the same way as transcendence becomes a productive element of the mix to immanence, the anti-event-space of perspective becomes a productive element of the event-space. The ground includes the viewpoints on it. Officially speaking, what would a soccer field be without a referee? Unofficial. The inclusion of that anti-event-space in the event-space not only allows particular moves in the game to be qualified as to type (attributed intrinsic properties of fairness or foulness common to any number of other moves). It typifies the game as a whole: as "official," as in conformity. The anti-event-space is the injection of generality into the particularity of the game, with which it channels into the singularity of the play (the game as such, this game ... an event). The history of the game operates, through codification, between the level of the general and the level of the particular. The game's becoming is the transductive conversion of the general-particular (the historical) into what it is not (singular). In general, nothing happens. In particular, things are typically about to happen or have already happened (fair or foul, win or loss). Happening is singularly outside "such" as "this," model and type, above, around, between. In the making, in the midst, in the indeterminacy of outcome.
	There are other perspectives on the game besides the referee's. The fans also 
individualize players, and teams, attributing them intrinsic properties and ordering the  seriality of their extrinsic relatings into the linearity of a recognizable history (a model progression). The way in which the audience's perspective is included in the game is not through regulatory application, but by affective means. The excitement or disappointment of the stadium audience adds auditory elements to the mix that directly contribute to modulating the intensity of the field of potential. The audience feedback is itself modulated by the spectators' accumulated individualizations of the game--their already-constituted knowledge of and attachment to the histories of the players and teams. 
	The point of view of the TV audience is different. Their individuations do not fold back on the field of play. Quite to the contrary, through the TV audience the play  folds out of its own event-space, into another. The televised game enters the home as a domestic player. Take for example American football. Super Bowl Sunday, the peak event of the football season, corresponds to a peak statistic: year after year, that day logs the highest incidence of domestic violence. The home entry of the game, at its crest of intensity, upsets the fragile equilibrium of the house-hold. The pattern of relations between house-held bodies is re-problematized. The game event momentarily interrupts the pattern of extrinsic relations generally obtaining between domestic bodies, as typed by gender. A struggle ensues: a gender struggle over clashing codes of sociality, rights of access to portions of the home and its contents, and rituals of servitude. The socio-historical home place converts into an event-space. The television suddenly stands out from the background of the furnishings, imposing itself as a catalytic part-subject, arraying domestic bodies around itself according to the differential potentials generally attaching to their gender type. For a moment, everything is up in the air--and around the TV set, and between the lounge room and the kitchen. In proximity to the TV, words and gestures take on unaccustomed intensity. The home space is repotentialized. Anything could happen. The male body, sensing the potential, transduces the heterogeneity of the elements of the situation into a reflex readiness to violence. The "game" is rigged by the male's already-constituted propensity to strike. The typical pattern of relations is re-imposed in the unity of movement of hand against face. The strike expresses the empirical reality of the situation: recontainment by the male-dominated power formation of the domestic. The event short-circuits. The event is recapture. The home event-space is back to the place it was: a container of asymmetric relations between terms already constituted according to gender. Folding back onto domestication. Coded belonging, no becoming.
	The transmission of media images has transductively converted sports potential-and-containment into gender potential-and-containment. The event has migrated, changing in nature as it went. Media transmission is the becoming of the event. All of the operations figuring on the playing field re-figure in the striking field. Re-figure, and re-configure: induction, transduction, catalysis; signs, part-object, part-subject; expression application (folding back), coding; capture and containment. When the event-dimension migrates to a new space, its elements modulate. There is no general model for the catalysis of an event. Every time an event migrates, it is re-conditioned. In the home-space, the television and the images it transmits are inductive signs. The images are also transducers. And they contribute to the catalysis of the domestic event. The television set combines sign, part-object, and part-subject functions, making it a key term in the home space. In spite of multiple operations attached to it, the television is a less powerful catalyzer than the soccer ball. Although domestic violence events are widespread, they do not occur with the regularity with which soccer play is triggered by the arrival of the ball in a event-primed stadium. In both cases, the overall field of potential within which the event transpires is composed of sub-fields. For example the application in the stadium of the rules of the game, and the reactions of the audience, can be seen as having their own fields of potential, primed by inductive signs proper to them, and having their own specialized transducers. Every field of potential occurs at the intersection of a plurality of sub-fields of potential, each composed of a heterogeneity of elements. The fields intersecting around the home event-space are just as complexly layered as those of the stadium, if not more so. However, its sub-fields (home architecture, dwelling habits, unconscious gender patterning, conscious gender ideology, and so on) are more loosely held together. The home space is not codified--there is no rule-book governing the production of the event of domestic violence, or on the other hand of caring. Domesticity is coded. Coding is also modelling, but not through formal regulation. The modelling occurs through the accumulation of already-constituted relations, contracted into bodies as habit (which includes belief: habituated meaning). Of course, formal regulation is part of the mix (civil law covering marriage and cohabitation and criminal law covering personal injury). But overall, the power formation of the domestic operates through the informal production of regularities, as opposed to the formal application of regulations. 
	There is a constant communication between and co-functioning of power formations which operate predominantly through accumulation and regularization, and those which operate through application and regulation. Broadly, power formations of the regulatory kind are Static--State, proto-State and State-like formations. The Static is defined by the separation of a dedicated institution of application: a specialized bureacracy whose judgments folds back down upon the event-space from which it has emerged and diverged, and to which it belongs, in an operation of transcendence. The temptation is to call power formations having to do with regularization social or cultural, since they have no dedicated bureacracy, other than the State in the narrow sense. But it is self-evident that the "social" or "cultural" do not coincide with the field of regulatory application of the State, even though they cannot be separated from it. That is precisely point; that is precisely why they require separate appelation and analysis. The "social" and the "cultural" leak from State regulation on every side. There are transnational and pre-national cultures, just as there are sub-State social fields, often officially recognized by the State as beyond its purview (the "personal" and "private"). Their official recognition amounts to a partial--indirect or negative--regulation. For example, negatively, domestic violence may occasion State intervention. Violence, or any interruption of smoothly patterned social functioning, provides the opening into which the State can insert itself into spaces formally defined as non-Static (Foucault's disciplinary power). Positively, the State can help induce the emergence of smoothly patterned social functioning in State-friendly forms, for example through civil marriage, pro-family policy, and health and welfare measures (Foucault's biopower). But caring cannot be legislated. Effective expressions of the positivity of belonging elude the State. This is why the State, like any regulatory apparatus, follows that which it regulates. Its applications are always retrospective, sniffing out and running after feral belongings it must attempt to recoup, to rechannel into State-friendly patterns. The Static is incapable of perceiving the distinction between an infraction of its rules, and the emergence of a new belonging, a new field of potential. It only knows the negative. It can only construe change negatively, as a prospective transgression of the regulations it will, by right, impose. The Static is by nature reactive ("static" also in the sense of favoring stasis, changing only in response to an outside it can only perceive as an impingement on itself, or as a perturbation). Like sports style, "social" or "cultural" emergence is against the rules--without having broken them. Complicating things further, if the "social" and "cultural" elude the Static, the Static for its part is a component element of the "social" and "cultural." Its transcendence folds back down on them, becomes-immanent to them. A bureaucracy participates in catalyzing the social or cultural. Furthermore, every bureaucracy has a culture specific to it: its separation from that to which it becomes-immanent constitutes it as a mini-society. 
	There is an entirely different level of complication to calling event-spaces "social" or "cultural." As event-spaces bifurcate into the regularizing and the regulatory, the event-dimension undergoes a different but associated split. The event-dimension bifurcates into two subdimensions. 
	1) Coding and codification are forms of event-self-referentiality--the folding back of the event onto itself, toward its repetition. The folding back, the self-referencing, is what converts the event into an event-space. The regularization or regulation effecting this conversion must be conceived as having its own conditions and field of potential. The physicality of the event-space (house or stadium) is doubled by a dynamic abstraction proper to it, one governing its own repeatability, as distinct from the repeatability of the events it hosts. Every event-space proliferates. Houses come by the suburb, and stadiums in leagues. As coded or codified, the event-space is reproducible. Its reproduction  provides an inductive ground for the serial emergence of subsequent events. These are deemed to be the "same" by virtue of occurring in what has become a recognizable space. A type of space. It is the typing of the physical event- space--the invariance (regularity or regulation) of the substantial elements entering its mix--that makes the incorporeal events emerging from it recognizably the "same." (This is why "isolation," "defamiliarization," "distancing" or "decontextualization"--ways of freeing the event from its regular event-space--are so often cited as conditions of "art" as a practice of transformation resisting containment by social or cultural power formations.) The recognizability of the space lends itself to the event, like an after-image of substantial invariance on the incorporeality of variation. The typing of the space tinges the multiple events doubling it with generality, giving already-constituted meaning and reflection a tongue-hold on the unspeakably singular (only sensible) self-expression of the events--each of which retains a residue of uniqueness in excess over its recognition as belonging to a type. Recognition makes an event typical. That is to say, boring. Its residue of uniqueness makes it "interesting" (an attractor, an inducting sensation) for a body positioned outside its space (with a perspective on it). The event-dimension of self-referentiality is the inclusion in becoming (as a multiple-singular; a proliferation of uniqueness) of the anti-event-space of generality (recognizability, sameness) and its perceptual concomitant (perspective). Self-referentiality, as a subdimension of the event, is the field of potential of transcendence-become-immanent. "Interest" is the sign of that inclusion.
	2) Media transmission involves another subdimension of the event, interlinking with and inseparable from event-self-referentiality. This is the dimension of event-transitivity.  The transitivity of the event is also proliferating. But it is a proliferation that crosses a qualitative threshold. When the event passes from the stadium to the home, piggy-backed on televisual images, it changes in nature. Whereas self-referentiality has to do with reproduction, event-transitivity has to do with differentiation. In transformational transit, the event returns to its becoming, as pure immanence. The interval of transmission is thus very different from the interruption of regulation. In the media interval, the event is a material but incorporeal immanence (an electron flow) moving through a dedicated technological milieu. When it is analogically reexpressed in televisual images, its conditions have drastically changed. Its substantial elements have been homogenized and reduced, to fit sound speaker and screen. The event's ability to trigger a catalytic effect is no longer certain. It is no longer necessarily a part-subject, but must be assisted in that role. Its catalysis must be catalyzed. "Nothing" is ever on TV. It is rarely "interesting." In the new event-space, distraction is more catalytically operational than interest. Television is not predominantly perspectival, as the old catchphrase "window on the world" would have it. What is analogically rendered on screen is only a fraction of the operative event-space--which includes the content of the home, as well as the screen and its content. The home, however, is less a container than a membrane: a filter of exteriorities continually entering and traversing it. Television is more about delivery into a more-or-less open milieu than it is about the perspective of one closed space onto another, or of a closed space onto an open space. The collective expressions occuring in the porosity of the domestic space, including the television as one humble element in a complex and loosely integrated mix, are highly variable. However, the variability and porosity, the fact that the TV-hosting home is not a container, should not be construed to mean that the events regularly triggered with televisual participation are not containment events and that the home is not a formation of power. Containment has more to do with the patterning of exits and entries across thresholds than with the impermeability of boundaries. This is as true for the regulation of codified event-spaces as for spaces characterized by coding. What is pertinent about an event-space is not its boundedness, but what elements it lets pass, according to what criteria, at what rate, and to what effect. These variables define a regime of passage. Self-reference through application, or through regulation by a transcendent formation, can assure a stricter regime of passage (more selective openness). The around-the-clock access to the home by communicational technologies (mail delivery, telephone and answering machine, fax, Internet, radio, TV) opens wide its codings to high-volume and highly random passage, of signs if not of human bodies. In spite of the locks on the door, the event-space of the home must be seen as one characterized by a very loose regime of passage. As a regime of openness to sign circulation, to the delivery, absorption, and relay of sounds, words, and visions--the home is a node in a circulatory network of many dimensions (each corresponding to a technology of transmission). Awash in transitivity. The home is a node in an indefinitely extended field of immanence, to which the technologies of transmission give body (provide a dedicated event-space). That technologized field of immanence is punctuated by formations of transcendence (generalities, perspectives; State, proto-State, and State-like formations). But they do not effectively regulate it. Rather, the network distributes (effectively connects) the transcendences. Formations of transcendence are also nodes, encompassed by a technologically body-doubled field of immanence that by nature eludes their rule (however hard they might try at times to tame it--communicational deregulation is still the governmental name of the game).
	Technologically assisted channeling of event-transitivity constitutes a qualitatively different mode of power than either the regulating codifications of the Static or the regularizing codings of the "social" or "cultural," at whose self-referential thresholds it is continually knocking. The transitive (a less fraught term than "communicational") must be seen as the dominant mode of power in what some are apt to call the "postmodern" condition. Its network is what connects coding to coding, codification to codification, coding to codification, and each to its own repetitions, in an ebb and flow of potentialization-and-containment. The network distributes. Interlinks. Relates. The network is the relationality of that which it distributes. It is the being of collective becoming. Communicational technologies give body to relationality as such, and as set in motion, as such--as the passing-on of the event. The passing of the event is distinct both from the technology of transmission that is its corporeal double, and from its delivery on the other side of the threshold. The passing, event-transitivity in itself, in becoming, is the interval that encompasses--occupying every threshold. Every "enclosure" is encompassed by a pure immanence of transition. The medium of "communication" is not the technology. It is the interval itself: the moveability of the event, the displacement of change, relationality outside its terms, "communication" without content, communicability. Encompassed, the Static and the regularized transpire in an atmosphere of modulation. It is precisely their job to realize modulation as a local modification: to produce a condensate of the modulatory atmosphere, giving terms to relationality and content to communicability. This is an obverse kick. The delivery of the soccer kick converted a terms in movement into their singular relation. It was a local modification that converted into a modulation. Here, it is modulation that is delivered, and upon delivery converted into a local modification. The modulation, at the threshold, is indeterminate, a communicability. No longer singularly differentiated. Over the threshold, it helps catalyze a local modification, which then effects a singular modulation of the relationality of the event-space entered, a smaller-scale modulation proper to the plane of immanence doubling the home. This potentialization is no sooner effected than contained. House-held actions, like sports kicks, operate within a tight circuit between potentialization (the singular) and containment (the general-particular) within a given space of self-reference. The obverse kick of the "communicational" changes the standing of the space into which it is delivered. It opens it, prying into its self-referencing without deactivating its potentialization-and-containment circuit. It pipes itself in through a many-dimensioned delivery line that thresholds the potentialization-and-containment with indeterminacy on all sides. The singular and the general-particular come to hinge on the indeterminate. Or swim in it, since the encompassing threshold is not a door but an inundative medium of flow. "Communications" is the traffic in modulation, de-singularized.  A kick is resistance (more in the frictional sense than the oppositional one: a rub against the rules, rather than a breaking of them). "Communications" is a special mode of power that lubricates event-spaces in a bath of indeterminacy, smoothing the thresholds of containment. Resistance and containment are contained--in flow. They are wafted. Resistance-and-containment, together, are wafted, modulated by technologies trucking with the indeterminate. Their wafting indexes them to the not-self-referentiality of their threshold, the interval: something that is not exactly outside, but is still exorbital to the event-space of arrival. A pseudo exo-referentiality--to the indeterminate. (Agamben [1995] develops a Heideggerian account of communicability that differs from the one offered here in its emphasis on language as the "irreparably" unshowable showing of truth. Here, communicability is refered to synaesthetic sensation as transductive multi-channeling, conditioning not only language but movement, at the hinge between them.)
	The networking of event-transmission must be seen as extending to information in general, to commodities, and to money: to any sign whose basic operation is to flow, and whose inductive/transductive effect must be "realized" (whose catalytic role must be catalyzed; whose expression must be expressed). All of these event-transmitters carry a high charge of indeterminacy, of unrealized (in present vocabulary, "unactualized") potential. What they are, what their event will be, what will be expressed with or through them, is highly variable, since they are complexly co-catalyzed by the heterogeneous elements populating the proliferating spaces they enter. Event-transmitters are inductive/transductive signs roving for catalysis, across many a proliferation. Their readiness to catalyze--their aptitude for part-subjecthood--is also highly variable. The ready-most is money, a sign whose simple appearance in any situation is sure to incorporeally transform it in one way or another. The least catalytic is information. Each event-transmitter is sustained and delivered by a dedicated collective apparatus deploying at least one technology of channeling that gives it body in the interval, where it disappears into its own immanence (even low-tech transmitters return to immanence: letters are mailed sealed in an envelope, their meaning re-latent). The intervallic bodies are of many types, ranging from mail boxes and post offices to telephone lines to computers to the many and varied institutions and instruments of finance. These knot together into an expanding capillary network traversing every event-space, with ever-increasing complexity (most recently focusing on the World-Wide Web, but including such pedestrian operations as computerized mail sorting). In the complexity of their interlinkage, they form an encompassing threshold-space of transitivity that can no longer be ignored as a global power formation in its own right. That power formation has a name: capitalism. For money, as means of payment or of investment, is the only event-transmitter that traverses every event-space, without exception. Capital is the capillary network of the capillary, the circulator of the circulation, the motor of transitivity--the immanence of immanence-embodied. The inside limit of the relational.
	The current capitalist mode of power could be called control: neither coding nor codification, neither regularization nor regulation, but the immanently encompassing modulation of both [Deleuze; Massumi, "Req"]. The power of control is predicated on decoding (rendering signs objectively indeterminate, immanent, charged with potential) and deterritoritorialization (the drawing off of the event from its general-particular spaces of expression and, in this case, its consignment to a distributed, intervallic space of its own). The power of control is decoding and deterritorialization, delivered (ready for catalysis into a containment-event in a new space; ready for recodification and reterritorialization; ready to be converted into a local modification). Control is modulation itself made powerful (made a factor of containment--its flow factor). It is the powering-up of potential. The ultimate capture--not of the elements of expression, not even of expression, but of the event itself. It is in no way underestimating capitalist control to call its worldwide trafficking in modulation the stylization of power. It was argued earlier that the model of power was usurpation. What is being usurped here? The very expression of potential. The movement of relationality. Becoming-together. Belonging. Capitalism is the global usurpation of belonging.
	Now what becomes of the "social" and the "cultural" in all this? The uselessness of the terms has compounded. As generally employed, they are words for the ties that bind. The collective bond. Belonging. But an analysis of belonging in terms of relationality--rather than in terms of terms--ends up in a very different dimension than either the "social" or the "cultural" (assuming it is even meaningful to make a distinction between them). Belonging, in capital, is a pseudo-exo-referentiality indexed to the indeterminate. The ties that bind are of "whatever" nature [Agamben]. They cannot be qualified as ties or as binding (witness the epidemic of "anti-social" behavior perfusing capitalist sociality). They have no assignable qualities. This means, among other things, that belonging, at its most expansive, is no longer clearly distinguishable from the capital, nor capital from the communicational. Is the "bond" socio-economic or communicational-cultural? In either case, it is unbalanced by a split. Where is it? If "society" is against the State, in Pierre Clastres' words, then why is it also within it (in the mini-"societies" or local "cultures" of specific bureaucracies)? If the "cultural" is "resistance" (in the usual sense), as much of Cultural Studies maintains, then what contains it? The world is not in a condition of permanent revolution. Resistance is undeniably contained, but it is not the State that contains it, because "culture" obviously extends beyond the State's dedicated spaces (into the home and stadiums), and State regulation operates precisely by applying itself to spaces as if from outside (from an included general perspective). Capital certainly can't contain the "cultural." As a limit of immanence, capital cannot even contain itself (which is why it is relentlessly expansionist, if no longer imperialist in the nineteenth-century sense).
	The problem can be got at etymologically. "Cultural" and "social" are back-formations from "society" and "culture." The adjectival forms appeared long after their substantive parents. But as adjectives, they have a fluidity that their substantives lack. They can be applied narrowly or broadly, to qualify anything. They function in a way akin to shifters. Wherever they go, they drag an after-image of their parents. Each use of the terms evokes a spectral substantive that comes back to the fore whenever the question of agency arises. "Society" and "culture" tag along after their adjectives, stepping in whenever the need arises to attribute a causative agent. Their agency is implied, even when it is not explicitly invoked. They are the generally implied subject of the statement, in perpetual adjectival shift, going wherever "social" and "cultural" go. And in these interdisciplinary days, that is just about everywhere. "Society" and "culture" are the near-universal subject of theoretical statements of interdisiplinarity and transdisciplinary (the institutional footholds of the "hybrid"), as well as of those produced by their dedicated particular disciplines (sociology and anthropology, for example). The problem is that not only are "society" and "culture" not subjects--they are not even objects.
	Up to now, the account has scrupulously avoided any use of these words not preceded by a "part-." However, their undying popularity demands that they be accounted for. In the present context, the best way to begin is with the body, which has repeatedly come up as a channeller. What might a body be? It is not a thing in the sense of a self-enclosed substance. Delve into it far enough, and you reach the infinite vacuum expanses between and within atomic particles. Look at its outwardness, its actions or expressive movements, and you would have to say that its effective boundaries extend beyond its skin, that they extend, in fact, as far as its expressions do. The expressive extent of the body forms an abstract corporeal envelope of indefinite contour--all the more indefinite the farther into the "age of communications" the body wanders. Go in or out, and what you find are variations on empirical emptiness. Nothing with the solidity of a self-enclosed, self-same substance. The solidity of the body is in the middle. The "solidity" is nothing more than the regularity of the body's presentations to another body. It is an interaction effect. It is a self-ordering arising from the iteration of a perceptual in-between. What accounts for the iteration? That fact that both the perceiving body and the perceived body are themselves iterated interactions. A body is layered: roughly, from the subatomic to the atomic to the molecular to the intracelluar to the cellular to the intercellular to the inter-organismic. The levels are not spatially distinguished. Any region of the body participates in every level. They are processually distinguished. The levels are dimensions of processuality that traverse every region. The processes concerned are periodic: from the orbits of electrons to hunger to circadian rhythms to rutting. The periodicity of a processual level makes it regularly accessible to interaction with another level. The body's "solidity" is entirely relational. It is an interlocking of processual periodicities, in such a way as to be mutually sustaining. The levels co-condition one another. There is no substantial ground upon which they stand. They float between the quantum vacuum and corporeal abstraction, suspended in existence by their interactive embrace of one another. A body, alone, is collectively self-standing. Bodies are group  floats. Waftings of periodic embrace. They have the "substance" of a rhythm. The same could be said of "things," with adjustments. Bodies, body-levels, and things perceive themselves into existence (Deleuze, following Leibniz, calls this process "prehension"[1988: 105-108; in Whitehead's vocabulary, it is "concrescence"). The perception of a body by another body, or of levels of the same body by each other, is a perception of perception, being-in-between in-betweens. That self-standing doubling over of in-betweenness on itself is the immanence of sensation. It is the sensation of the periodicity of interaction--of its ordering or regularity--that enters language as "substance."
	Just as the sun appears stationary from the orbiting earth, and the earth stands still as we walk upon its surface, in every interaction the motion of one body or level will appear static to another. "Stasis" is a perceptual effect of relative motion (although not of speed per se, since there is no one-to-one correspondence between slowness and "stasis"--the earth moves through space faster than its creatures move on it). "Substance" is a general name for this stasis-effect. Regions of interaction also have particular names through which they participate in the generality of substance, as things or bodies in the normal sense. Naming culminates the hypostasis of interaction. It is for language that bodies or things are--become self-enclosed, substantial entities, discrete empirical terms that enter into relation (as opposed to being regions of relationality; as opposed to being becoming).  The being of becoming is sensation. The being of things is a being-for language, the being of becoming-for-langauge.
	The "objective" is a language-culminated perception-effect consisting in the substantialization of relation. The "subject" is a continuation of the same process. To the body registering the stasis-effect, only itself--the self-standing region of interaction that it "is"--will appear to move. Its own name (and pronoun) will then designate the principle of the movement. To the extent that other bodies fail to register as stasis-effects, they will be perceived as harnessing the same principle of movement. The self-standings of relationality become the self-propulsions of bodies. Prehension itself now hypostasizes, into agency. Bodies are now perceived as the substantial housings of agencies. (The model of domesticity?) Any body perceived to be another "subject" will appear to share in the same principle of movement. The particular subject is a housed harnessing of that general principle: "subjectivity." 
	If objectivity is the substantialization of relation, subjectivity is the absorption of the same relationality into a general principle. General principle: without substance. The "subject" is the absorption of relation into an immaterial term [Simondon]. A particular subject is a region of absorbed--hyper-hypostasized--relation. What makes the subject a "subject" is its generality, its immateriality. What makes it a "term" is its substance. "The" subject is a term into extrinsic relation with others of its type through the mediation of its substantial housing. As current cultural-theoretical usage so tiresomely illustrates, every subject is "The" subject, the subject-in-general. "The" subject is only a particular subject to the extent that it surrenders itself to embodied mediation. A subject is particular to the extent that it is what it is not: its housing, its "body." The endless oscillation in contemporary cultural theory between "the subject" and "bodies" expresses this impasse. It is an unmistakeable indication that cultural theory overall is still stumbling along within the Hegelian horizon. For is this not the movement of Spirit? The movement of Spirit--aborted by the well-justified contemporary refusal of teleology. Without an end in sight where empiricial substance and Spirit might meld, all that is left is the impasse. "Dialectics without synthesis." The epistem of contemporary theory is an imprisonment of thought in the irreparability of Hegelian Spirit. Despite vigorous denials, the "materialism" of most cultural theory today is a broken-down idealism. 
	The only way to bring matter back to "culture" is through a logic of non-dialectical relation. But "culture" would be demolished by that logic. Terms like "culture" or "society" are relational in the same way as "subjectivity," except they shift adjectivally rather than pronominally. If anything, the "cultural" displacement of subjectivity to the adjectival further entrenches the unacknowledged idealism, since it allows the generality of the subjective to predicate itself to any name, not just those capable of saying "I." It is perhaps a distinguishing characteristic of the "communicational" age to speak as if things had agency, as in the statement "television causes violence." When pressed, those who favor such formulations will invariably fall back on "society" or "culture." Terms for collective agency are carriers of idealism, vectors of hyper-hypostasization.
	To sum up, substance, subject and object are derivatives of the same process culminating in language. Strictly speaking, there is no substance. There is only substantialization--of which immateriality is a special case. Subject and object have only nominal existence. They are in words. More precisely, they are in the relation of words to perception. To say that the conditions of existence of discrete empirical terms are in words is not at all to trip back into the horizon of idealism. Quite the contrary. For if the being of subject and object is in language, their becoming, for its part, can only be outside language, or at its threshold, in its in-between with perception. This is the same in-between as between perception-to-perception. The saying of perception shares the same doubled-over interval as the perception of perception: sensation, thrice over. The becoming of substance, subject, object is triply in sensation. If their being is a fictional (nominal) existence, their becoming is sensible reality. 
	A logic of relation leads to a materialist realism. With a difference. The "material" and the "real" are now on the order not of the subjective or objective, but of sensation. And sensation is incorporeal. It is the being of the substantial as relation, the body in its becoming-together with other bodies. In the interval. Sensation fills the interval, it is what happens in the interval. The "incorporeal" is thus very different from the "immaterial." The incorporeal is a real and material: it is material potential, the dynamism of matter, matter in its energetic phase, matter as modulation, insubstantiality as a dimension of matter, real and material yet abstract. The opposition or contradiction between the material and the immaterial is replaced by phased co-conditioning of the corporeal (self-standing perception) and the incorporeal (the effect arising from perceptions in their intermixture; what comes of the perception of perception; what becomes of perception doubled over). That co-conditioning is the corporeal and incorporeal as natural expressions of each other. For the modulation of the incorporeal is necessarily doubled by a modification of the corporeal, and vice versa. That vice-versal is the singularity of the event. Circuit. Substance and immateriality are fictionalizations of the circuit of the corporeal and the incorporeal, their phasing into and out of each other converted into a dialectic. Accompanying that conversion is a conversion of the singular into the general-particular. Of course, fiction also has a kind of reality. Its reality is that of an effect, the general-particular effect of language. This language-effect (fortunately, there are others) does not easily circuit back, but instead mires in a dialectical impasse. The reality of fiction in this sense (fortunately, there are again others) is that of linguistic blockage: anti-event. "Subject," "object," "culture," "society" are signs of a blockage of the movement between the corporeal and the incorporeal, trapped on the level of language. 
	What better word for becoming-in-the-interval, that movement-between, than thought? Terms for collective agency are thought blocks: anti-thought. The linguistic capture of thought. Hence the anxiety in so much contemporary theory over how "theory" might be made "resistance." Thought can only be re-triggered by a reconversion of the general-particular into singularity, whose condition of expression is sensation. "Fiction" in a different sense (Foucault's, for example) is the practice of that reconversion, which requires drawing on the performative (catalytic) resources of language (language as a practice of incorporeal transformation rather than as a vector of generalization). This process might be called fabulation, in order to distinguish it from its eponymous anti-thought. Fabulation is a reversal of the flow from sensation to generality. It is making language a sensation again, making it rejoin the circuit of potentialization, putting back in phase. This is also "natural" (necessary for becoming). Only theorizing that naturally embraces fabulation can effect the conversion of the general. Embracing fabulation theoretically means writing style. Making theory "resistant" means making its writing prehend the aesthetic--which it was argued earlier is one with ontological emergence [a point developed by Guattari]. Few contemporary theorists have been so stylistically astute as the "fictional" Foucault. Few, also, have been so becoming. It was inevitable that his biography would scandalize.
	This is not to say that it is not useful to speak in general terms. It is useful and necessary, in that substantialization gives becoming a being-for-language without which it would culminate in its own corporeal vacuum. Becoming with no thing, nothing to convert, nothing to phase into and out of, would short-circuit. Pure becoming cannot be. Theoretical writing, even the most becoming, must retain its general-particular function as a condition of its transformativity. Writing that is all singular, as some "experimental" fiction is, is also entirely unreadable. Which is a sensation in its own right. But it is not a theorizable one (for better or for worse). It is so self-standing that it cannot unfurl from itself enough to prehend. Rather than circuiting, it swirls, inconceivably quickly, in a void of its own making. "Experimental" writing is a practice of the aesthetic taken to its extreme, where the reading of the writing becomes a rupture ("defamiliarization") rather than either a blockage or an interval of continuation (re-circuiting). This unreading of writing is as close writing comes to being a pure sensation, to being its own event. In any case, the retention of the general-particular at issue here (some semblance of conceptual "characters" [Deleuze and Guattari] and "plot") is not the same retention as was criticized earlier in relation to theories of subjectivity-as-performance. It is not at all the same to retain the general as an opposed term and to retain it as material phase-shift. Between these retentions lies all the difference between idealism-in-spite-of-itself and incorporeal materialism [see Pheng Cheah's review of Judith Butler; the phrase "incorporeal materialism" is an invention of Foucault's].
	"Subject" and "object" are not only useful, they are carriers of actual perception-effects. They are linguistic markers of a spontaneously occurring polarization of the perceptual field. That polarization is the self-organizing inclusion of perspective, the unmotivated inclusion of the proto- general in the singularity of the event. "Subject" and "object" are useful to the extent that they mark the insertion point of the general-particular into the singular, because that inclusion is the operative condition of the Static--of regulatory power, which is in turn an evolutionary condition of the emergence of capitalist power (to which it is not only not reducible, but from whose conditioning it is not entirely impossible that it may at some future conjuncture escape). The problem is that "subject" and "object" mark the insertion point ever so vaguely. In a general-particular sort of way. So if it is necessary for theoretical writing to deploy "subject," "object," and "agency" in some way or another (although perhaps not as ponderously as been the vogue), it is crucial not to forget what process they are elements of. What process they are elements of is far more important than what they "mean." "Cultural" and "social" forget not to forget. Their shiftiness all too easily makes them sowers, rather than showers, of the perception-effect of the general.
	"Part-subject" and "part-object" are reminders. They are attempts to straddle the distance between "subject"-"object" and the relational interval, the ontological hyphenation of which they are hypostasized derivatives. The double "part-" should not be read as designating incompleteness, but rather a reciprocal participation. The "-subject" and "-object" are two sides of the same "parting-". They are signs for elements of a coming-together that is also a parting of the ways. They index processual elements. The processual elements they index are field polarities: regions of relationality that are in asymmetrical embrace of each other (but, once substantialized and linguistically shifted, significantly diverge from each other). A material asymmetry, as a processual departure point, is a potential. "Part-subject" and "part-object" are modest and not terribly felicitous theoretical attempts to embed perception-effects of potential in language. At the same time, they index intermixing bodies or things as substantializable ("physical" or "empirical") elements. The substantializable elements double the processual elements. In this vocabulary, that is what a body is: a doubling of a process. The corporeality of the body in this account is a reciprocity (albeit constitutively unbalanced). The corporeal is an associated processual milieu of an incorporeal process. The immateriality of Spirit or mind or agency propels bodies. It is at the origination of a movement, its causative principle. The incorporeal, by contrast, accompanies the self-standing of the corporeal. It comes along when the self-standing perception that is the body, is perceived by a partible self-standing--a similarly self-standing perception poised to depart following its own rhythms. The incorporeal comes along as the event of the unbalanced coming-together of a part-subject and part-object, as a poising-for-divergence.
	A body is a conditional support for the incorporeality of associated events: an event-space. But at this point, what justifies retaining the trope of a supporting ground or foundation? The coming-together is asymmetrical, constitutively unbalanced. "Self-standing" does not primarily pertain to gravitational inertia and counter-gravitational balancing, although it does not contravene gravity (any more than a boat does). The self-standing of the body as an event-space is neither a direct postural response to gravity nor an anti-gravitational ascent out of its orbit. It is a float: a movement that runs transverse to the vector of gravity, by virtue of an intervening fluid medium. Sensation is that intervening, that interval. It is the sea or atmosphere within which body-channeled events transpire. Sensation is the dynamic between of bodies that is also between each body and its tendencies to inertial-equilibrium (regularization of periodic expression taken to the extreme). Bernard Cache suggests a better term than "support": frame. The term suggested itself at the outset, in connection with the game. Now that it is clear what a frame is (a mutual prehension selective of a self-standing field of potential) and what it is not (a spatial boundedness), it is time for it to return and displace the "ground." Frame is most serviceable, as long as it is remembered that for Cache the best model for the frame is neither the window nor the picture frame, but the kite [Cache: 109].
	A periodic body in its own right is as much an event-space as a regularized intermixing of bodies, as a state of things or situation like the home or the stadium. The kind of event-frame a body may be is highly variable, and is internally differentiated. It is always proto-objective, a part-object. It may also be an event channeler. As a channeler, it may be conductive (for example, the wire transmitting events folded into electronic immanence). In complex situations, especially those including language elements functioning performatively, the channeler can be transductive (part- or proto-subjective). It is as a catalyzer, as a channeler of events effecting from the bringing-together of a wide range of heterogeneous elements, that bodies are most "interesting" for cultural theory. In their complexity, such catalytic bringings-together, however regular or regulated their periodicity, always bring out a residue of uniqueness that is uncontainable either by the Static or by language. It is these expressions that are the pulse of any "cultural" theory aiming for a reconversion to becoming. To effect their perception, to make them at all sensible, it is necessary to take the situation, the intermixing of heterogeneous elements, as the basic unit of analysis. Theorizations starting from "the" body or "the" subject (most current cultural theory), or from "the" thing (phenomenology), or from "the" object (empirical methodologies) miss the situation. From "subjects," "things," and "objects" you get substantializations or idealizations-in-spite of themselves. Once you start down that track, not even by adding terms together and mixing vigorously will you get an expressive situation in its intervallic fullness. You have to "part-" to bring a situation together ("break things asunder," Foucault used to say). You have to find devices for making sensible the incorporeality of the corporeal. You need to start with a logic of relation. To comprehend situation, you need to prehend sensation. 
	Terms like "subject," "object," and "agency" are useful shorthand for indexing the polarity of the perceptual field. They are at any rate always in operation, shiftily if not with pride of place. This does not by any means always block thought. In fact, it introduces an element of linguistic vagueness necessary for theorization (which might be considered to involve a general-particular slowing of thought rather than its outright blockage). Thought continues, provided that devices are eventually found to convey relationality. After all, "subject" and "object" and "agency" are necessary, spontaneous unfoldings from relationality. They are real fictions, indexed to the reality of becoming by processual-perceptual derivation.
	But can the same be said of "culture" and "society"? These are substantialized "terms" whose hyper-hypostasis has been taken them so adjectivally far afield that they immaterialize with no substantial let alone singular residue. They have no body. Nothing channels a "culture" or a "society" as a whole, as a substantializable term that can be held in any pragmatic sense to enter into extrinsic relation with another term on its own ontological level. "Societies" and "cultures" only interact by stepping down. They interact through bodies that are nominally a "part-" of them (through their artifacts). "Social" or "cultural" interaction is always at the part-object or part-subject level. At that level, they are superfluous "terms." If substantialization is the goal, "subject" or "object" do just fine. Why cling to "society" and "culture"? If "subjectivity" is immaterial, a hyper-hypostasized absorption of relationality, then terms for collective agency such as "society" and "culture" carry that hypostasis to a higher level. They are immateriality raised to a higher power, so high that they explode in a poof of adjectives. It is of course not news to Cultural Studies, for example, that "culture," the master term it loves to hate, is a fiction. But it may be grist for thought (or better, a slowing of thought, considering the quantity and turn-over in publications in the field) to observe that "culture" is not a "real fiction." It is so hypostasized, so powerfully immaterial, as to be a spectral fiction. The "cultural" is the specter of subjectivity, that long discredited term, haunting Cultural Studies at a remove.
	Terms for collective agency are not necessary. To a logic of relation, the "individual" is already collective. Many times over. A part-object is the sign of a coming-together. It is in asymmetrical reciprocity with a part-subject. And such reciprocities always come in crowds--situations. Situations are always multi-levelled. Infinitely so, from the atomic on up. An infinity of substantializable elements is brought together in the most modest of expressive situations. That infinity must be multiplied by two right off the bat, since each substantializable level is doubled by a field of immanence, and each element by its potential as a modulation of that field. The only thing that makes this complexity thinkable is the channeling of that infinitely open interlocking of elements, levels, and fields in the eventful simplicity of sensation and the unity of modulatory movements doubling it. An exploration of relation must combine, among other things, a "critique of pure feeling" (Whitehead) with a philosophy of movement and multiplicity (Bergson). Since it concerns the eventful self-standing of the co-conditioning--happenstance--it is an exercise of contingent reason, neither "pure" nor exactly "practical" (yet  through its engagement with the sensible, nonetheless pragmatic).
	What then is an "individual"? An individual is a crowd of part-subjects and part-objects that hang together. It is a self-standing frame for an equally crowded field of associated events. It is an ambulant prehension of channelings. A traveling node of nodes of expression. An "individual" is not indiv-"isible." It is a holding-together that can be divided, but changes in nature at each division (divide a human individual, for example, and it is apt to bleed, undergoing a qualitative change from health to illness). To avoid the connotatoin of indivisibility, Deleuze and Guattari prefer the word "dividual" [CITE]. The "dividual" holds together, and holds events together, in a way that their potential may be periodicallly re- accessed. An individul is a relational stockpile. It is a capturable accumulation of potential. As such, it also a stockpile of escape. The complexity of its infinite composition will always yield a residue of potential in excess over its containment. It is always stylized, as a rhythm of containment and escape. 
	An individual's constituent periodicities enter, as a crowd, into a larger periodicities, more and less regularized and regulated patterns of expression. An individual is also additive--but through addition does not immediately change in nature. A composition of two or more individuals recapitulates the composition of part-subjects and part-objects on a larger scale. Collective individuation is fractal. Although the corporeal and incorporeal are ontologically wholly distinct dimensions, in expression they fractalize, with the incorporeal fissuring the corporeal like the splices between generative segments of a fractal figure in formation, and spacing it into continuous yet divergent scalar levels. Addition of individuals recapitulates their process on a new scale, isomorphically, or better, iso-processually (displaying a redundancy of process: phase-shifting between the incorporeal and corporeal, or figural; expression; intervallic continuity of generative movement).
	Individuals always "communicate" partially and additively. Every time a part-subject holding to one individual accesses a part-object of another individual, they compose a field of potential together. If that composite field of potential proves iterable (if it is periodic, regularized, or regulated) then it is an individual in its own right, and in some way takes body (substantially situates itself). The new body, or substantializable frame, may part-integrate the sub-bodies in a way that holds them to the shared field of potential. This is capture, which is best conceived as a symbiosis, since the composite individual does not wholly supplant the individuals composing it, but rather supplements them. The fractal scaling of collective individuation is a process of supplementation.
	Examples of symbiotic supplementation include the emergence of multicellular life itself. Many subcellular elements of multicellular organisms (organelles, mitochondria, cilia, etc.) were at one time independent creatures [Wesson, 159-60]. Their integration into larger unicellular organisms conditioned a quantum in leap in the complexity of their event-channeling. Colonies of  unicellular organisms became composite individuals encompassing still partially autonomous sub-individuals whose combined potential for event-channeling was far greater than the sum of their parts. It is even thought that gametes were once independent creatures, and that the meiosis at the basis of sexual reproduction is the remnant of a formerly autonomous process of asexual reproduction, multicellularly captured [Margulis and Sagan]. This is interesting in the context of "cultural" theory because it stands the received wisdom that sexual difference is the model for multiplicity on its gamete. Sexual reproduction is a processual expression of a much more encompassing multiplicity. Sexual difference is a derivative of differentiation, one that does not directly concern opposition or contradiction, but pertains instead to multiplicities, to populations: always more than one (diverging-together). The differentiation or diverging-together of which sexual difference is a derivative is evolution (what Foucault called "genealogy," clearly not unintending the allusion to sexuality). The additivity of individuals is not a supplanting (as in theories of "the" Other). It is an evolutionary supplementation: iso-processual drift. 
	Another example of symbiotic supplementation is the State. The State is a capture of multicellular human organisms that attempts (against earlier and other modes of collective indivuation) to hold them separately together (as "subjects"--the terminological echo is no coincidence [Dean and Massumi; Massumi 1992]--or "citizens"), in mutual dependence on their new composition. The emergence of the State retains the semi-autonomy of its sub-individuals, while working to divest them of their ability to survive in non-State collective individuations. The State, unlike "society" or "culture," has a body: a bureacracy. Bodies are of many kinds. The body that is a bureaucracy has any number of heterogenous elements holding together in a variety of ways (guns, buildings, law and rule books, signs of all types, employees ...). The body of the State is a dispersed body, but a body nonetheless. The rhythms of its elements' holding together (from census to taxation to election cycles) assure it periodic access to the subindividuals it needs for its own metabolism and meiosis. Also unlike a "society" or "culture," a State can manage to enter into extrinsic relation, as an already-constituted substantialized term, with another State, thanks to the regulated diverging-together of the bodily frames of the States concerned. A specialized sub-body is authorized, by specific regulation, to self-stand for the other sub-bodies and levels with which it is in symbiosis: part- for fractal "whole." This is a special, highly regulated, case of part-to-part additivity: "representation" (which is always an operation of the multiple, occuring between at least two collectivities). The specialized sub-body for extrinsic relations, of course, is the diplomatic corps. Diplomacy, it is well known, is an event-space where negotiating style is crucial and performative use of language is rife. This recalls a crucial point: the body of the State is not the State. It is the double of the State. (The State is an applied incorporeal event, or "Idea" [Dean and Massumi].) It is only apparently that a State has extrinsic relations with another State. State-relations only occur through a step-down into part- to part- event channeling, a rising up of a plane of immanence. A State can continue to function as a substantial term in extrinsic relation only by circuiting into a field of immanence. This is true of all State body-elements. Indeed, it is true of all body elements, whatever individual they compose. Intrinsic-extrinsic relationality is a phase-shift of an immanent relationality that is one with its communicability and changeability.
	A third example is "relationships" in the everyday sense. A diverging-together with a sexual component between two individuals is also only apparently a relationship between extrinsic, already-constituted substantial terms, personal whole to personal whole. A relationship is much more than that. It is a creation, the creation of a new collective individuation, a becoming (in addition to being a stereotypically domestic containment that residualizes becoming). "Sexuality" is the name commonly given to the step-down to the part- level through which the more-or-less residual becoming of a  relationship is channeled. It is "sexual" in the extended use of the term that is common to much cultural theory after Freud: the sense in which even the most subtle part- connection between any body parts-, including the eyes, may modulate a global field of potential that is the be-coming-together of the bodies occupying the complexly dispersed event-space of "love" or "passion" or "devotion." The notion of the fetish--freed from its anchoring-through-displacement to genital parts--conceptually effects the step-down. A fetish is a movement: a connective movement that joins a part-subject to a part-object, or more complexly a part-subject to another part-subject, in a way that channels events of belonging. The "fetish" is a transducer. The belongings it channels are highly variable depending on which parts- are involved, and particularly if they are human body parts- or extended body parts- ("things" like dildos and shoes, or "substances" like leather). The globality of the "relationship" (its field of immanence) is at play--and at stake--to a greater or lesser degree in every local movement of fetish-connection within the framing event-space (which is why Deleuze and Guattari will say, using domesticated heterosexuality as an example, that couples are continually rehearsing their break-up, as the internal limit of the relationship [CITE]). "Friendship," for its part, is a sexual relationship channeled primarily through the coyness of the eyes and the garrulousness of the tongue. But in every case, however "chaste" the friendship or single-minded the fetishism, mutually attractive part-subjects and part-objects governing any number of asymmetric fields of potential are operative, to varying degrees in different ways, by the legion. Love is a crowd phenomenon. All relationship is group sex, involving individuals within individuals, fields intersecting fields, sensation upon sensation, fractalized and multiplied. Sexualities. It is not only in the genealogy of species that "sexual difference" pertains first and foremost to the differentiation of populations. In the everyday as well, "sexual difference" is a derivative of the multiple. It is only under certain conditions of containment imposed through specific exercises of regularizing and regulatory power that the multiplicity of sexualities converts into a binary distinction applied to persons as a whole, that it diverges into an oppositional difference caught in a dialectic-without-synthesis of sameness and otherness (gender: the personification of containment). It is only on this divergent level of personified containment that the distinction between "sex" and "gender"--as well as that between "nature" and "culture"--is operative [Deleuze and Guattari analyze this process in terms of "faciality," which they also see as governing racial difference CITE]. Sexuality is neither "human nature" nor a "social construction." It is a situated holding-together, in a mutually intensifying manner, of disparate sensations. The sensations whose bundling constitutes sexuality come between bodies-together. They come from the potentializing-and-containing mixture of elements of all general-particular persuasions--"natural" and "cultural," talkative and mute--as eventfully in-channeled to a shared plane of immanence of most singular expression.
	The "fetish" in its anthropological sense (stripped of its negative connotations to mean simply "ritual element") effects a similar step-down from the general-particular to the singular-multiple in the event-space of religion. Religion is a collectively individuating potentialization-and-containment that only derivatively or supplementarily concerns belief, just as "relationships" only derivatively or supplementarily concern the "meaning" of humanoid being-together (its implicitly presupposed content or founding structure, as opposed to its event). Religion--for that matter, any and all affiliative comings-together of sensitive bodies--are directly, unsublimatedly sexual. A religion is a transmissible regime of sensation, a contagious technology of intensification, a becoming-intense.
	If every collective individuation is inseparable from a doubling dimension of  
becoming, it also participates in an evolution, a diverging-together conditioned by the stockpiling of differential potential in bodies occupying regions of the same field of interaction and expressing themselves according to disconsonant rhythms in mutual embrace. Evolution is the corporeality of the incorporeal, the embodying of the event of belonging (genealogy). So a collective individuation has a becoming and an evolution. But does it have a history?
	Only as a function of Static capture. Never do two empirical terms effectively relate to one another term to term, in linear fashion. The price of relation is stepping into an ontological circuit of potentialization-and-containment. There is no linear relation from one empirical term to another, as cause to effect. The would-be progression is always staggered by a lapse into immanence, into a transformative intervallic indeterminacy from which something new and unexpected always emerges, if only residually. Another name for transformative intervallic indeterminacy is force (Foucault again). No empirical investigator has ever observed a force. As Hume pointed out, only force-effects are observable. Force is only in its expression. Force belongs to a different ontological dimension from that which it effects. It is super-empirical. There are no empirical "laws" of nature or of culture, only iteration-effects: inter-accumulating, mutually prehending periodicities (probabilities). These most directly concern potential and its framing, its self-standing cumulative capture--rather than any grounding necessity or founding determination. Cache makes a similar point, inspired by Eugne Duprel, "whose philosophy was centered entirely on the notion of frame of probability." In the classical causal scheme, "no value has been attributed to the interval that separates cause from the realization of its effect. For a cause to produce an effect, this interval  must be filled. For in and of themselves, the set of causes that produce an effect are only frames of probability. One never knows how the interval will be filled; otherwise, everything that is known about the interval would cross over to the side of the cause, and all one would have done is to define a more restricted frame of probability. And if, by any chance, no indeterminacy remained in the interval, the cause would become identical to the effect and nothing new could happen at all. "[23] 
	Sensation fills the interval without translating it into a more restrictive frame, without one ever really getting a grasp on the how and why of it. Potential, the chance of the new, is in the lapse, between probable nature and explaining culture. Which is precisely where it is accessed by sensation. Sensation, as sensation, is ungraspable. As grasped (as prehended) it is body. As the residue of becoming that eludes the grasp it correlates to "mind" (bodily escape as a positive reserve of potential: the positivity of thought as previously defined). Sensation as sensation is ungraspably between: physical and mental, instinctual and learned, reflex and strategy, natural and cultural. But it is not their mix. The mixing of bodies is the event-space: the local frame of probability. The sensation is the pure channeling of the mix into the boundless incorporeality of the global event-dimension: positive de-framing. The interval of sensation lies at the point of fractal indistinction between levels: at their "bifurcation point," to use a term from chaos theory. At their best, chaos theory and complexity theory are scientific investigations of the ineradicable transformativity of all force, its sensitivity to mixture (the Three-Body Problem) and field fluctuation, its fundamental openness, the empirical lapsing that makes room for the new. 
	The super-empirical nature of force necessitates a thorough reworking of the concept of cause. The linear connection between cause and effect as qualitatively different terms in extrinsic relation must be supplemented by a non-linear "immanent causality" in which everything that happens is the expressive effect of a remix of the already-effected. "Cause" would then be a selective (framed) reactivation or reiteration of stockpiled effect. Sampling. Reality self-sampling. The most sensible model for immanent causality is autocatalysis: self-arising differentiation triggered by positive feedback, or systemic self-recursion (additive divergence between spontaneously arising, co-conditioning ontological levels, whose self-recursive divergence defines a global field of open-ended tendency).
	The specificity of religion, for better or for worse, is to consciously assert the super-empirical nature of force. What distinguishes religion from science is not epistemological ("superstition" versus "knowledge"). Both are technologies of intensification and force. The super-empirical nature of force has only been scientifically recognized in the West in certain currents of physics (quantum physics and far-from equilibrium thermodynamics), medecine (under the rubric of the "psychosomatic," a concept in dire need of overhaul), and more recently in evolutionary biology (neo-Darwinians testing notions of "directed mutation," "hypermutability," and other responses to environmental variation that are not themselves selective, even if they do not contravene natural selection). Consciously or not, the distinction between science and religion is pragmatic and tendential: what divergent collective regimes of sensation do with their cumulative capture of force, and in what direction their doing takes them. And "us": how it becomes us,  how it transforms humanoid belonging. "Cyborg" and "born-again" (or otherwise divine) are the most attractive poles of the day. 
	The tension between these tendential poles, both of which have global reach and transect both the State and capital, delimit the current field of potential of the "human." The poles of the cyborg and the divine are the internal limits of "humanity" (in other periods the poles of the human have been the animal and the divine). "Immanent outside limits" would be a better way of putting it than "internal," because the "limits" are processual thresholds. They are "immanent" to the process without being present in it, in that they govern its constitutive tendencies as attractors. Attractors are most simply understood on the model of magnetic poles, which, a technical dictionary informs us, "cannot exist" but are "deduced from the direction" of charged movements within a field, the globality of whose material conditions the polarity expresses in terms of potential [Chambers]. At the same time as marking abstract (incorporeal) limits, the poles anticipate empirical points at which the process in question changes in nature. Upon arrival at such a point, the movement passes "out," takes leave of itself as a function of its own polarized field-impulsion. Trudge to true south, and when you get there the needle of the compass that has guided you away from any northerly direction spins. You have reached the limit of your direction. The substantial point corresponding to (doubling) the event of reaching the polar limit is not itself charged. It is a zero-degree intensity of the charged field. That zero-degree intensity is itself an event. The magnetic pole is subject to unpredictable variation that cannot be characterized as directional, since directionality hinges on it. The incorporeal polar variation is the event of direction itself, the event conditioning directional events within the field of which it is an immanent outside limit. The true south found by the next expedition will not correspond to the same substantial point. There is more than one flag at the "south pole" and, embarrassingly, they are not in the same place. Once you plant your particular flag, there is nothing left to do but fold back on your own movement: from there, all paths lead north. Each potential folding-back, however, leads to a different north. Each potential trajectory has a different end-point, and passes through a unique set of intermediate points. From the first step, south, east and west begin to redifferentiate. The turn-around at the limit envelops a whole world of redifferentiating potential movement in the simplicity of a polar inflection. The passage across the threshold of the nonexistent polar limit makes a whole world of existential reference disappear, then reappear  with a different valency, having undergone a qualitative change. There is a world of difference between arriving and returning, even if the abstract directional frame of the movements remains the same (the formal definition of north, south, east, and west as reciprocally determining vectors of divergence). A pole of potential is a virtual point of reference confering a value on an extra-directional inflection [on virtual reference points as enveloping worlds or "universes" of value, see Guattari].
	Similarly, the cyborg and the divine de-limit the human field of potential. Understood as a field function, "humanity" is the impulsive (charged) channeling of humanoid bodies toward a collective passing-"out," or "self-overcoming" at a point of inflection enveloping a brave new world, one whose frame of orientation may very well not be the same (posthuman or superhuman destiny). The cyborg and the divine, like all poles of potential, are virtual points of inflection. Once again like all poles of potential, there is an asymmetry between them. The divine inflection, or the pole of the sacred, is a point of no-arrival. Its radical otherworldliness makes its passing "out" of this world a pure return to it (Second Coming, kalpa, cycles of regeneration in any number of cosmologies). The sacred is a virtual pole of valorization operating within the field of the human in fictional mode, as a specter of becoming (becoming under the sign of return). The divine specter is the most general of fictions--the One, or one-way principle of movement that demands acquience, seeking to encompass all particularity in its frame of value, under sublime threat of abjection. The abject or the profane is the sacred's anti-pole, the expelled point of pure arrival. The expulsion of the anti-pole only intensifies its attractive power in the field of potential. Back in the world, there is an ineluctable tendency for arrival to return. The return of arrival is when an element of the divinely inflected world takes on its own valence, in defiance of the sacred's demand for acquiescence. This involves a reorientation according to a different directional frame of reference, and channels a field of potential obeying a different polarity: a swerve or leap to a different plane of value (often figured as a "fall"). The fall is into immanence (sex and capital being the most repeatedly successful profane attractors). 
	The cyborg, for its part, presents itself as an empirically reachable point of passage. It figures itself as a threshold. Its passing "out" is self-avowedly immanent: the cyborg is always presented as passing to the limit of a tendency that has already germinated within the human. Yet even as a "reachable" pole, it is in continual variation. What the human expedition might find on arrival cannot accurately be predicted. Even less so what foldings-back that the arrival would envelop (would the cyborg have emotion?). The cyborg is speculative, rather than spectral. Its mode of reality is not that of fiction, but rather of fabulation. A fabulation is also empirically empty, devoid of actual content. Yet it is neither sublime nor abject in a way that would oppose it to the divine (a pious cyborg is not unimaginable). It is not the anti-pole of the divine, but rather its dipole. It is is simply and mundanely, as distinct from profanely, an already-under way--a transformative passing knocking vaguely at the door of sensation, like a muffled echo of the future. Its presence is paradoxical (a aysymmetrical going-and-coming, where what is come to is different from what is gone from) rather than spectral (pure return). The divine pole only manages to express clearly one half of the asymmetry of self-recursion. The one-sidedness of divine expression condemns it to the symmetry of dialectical contradiction between unsynthesizable poles. The sacred is a one-way cycle: a  return the bottom tends to fall out of. The cyborg, on the other hand, is a transformative circuit. Its self-recursion, as a threshold state, makes a cross-over. The asymmetry of the coming-and-going of the human and the cyborg describes the irreversibility of a qualitative transformation: phase shift, as against pure return. 
	The "immanent outside limits" of humanity may also be thought of as "quasi-transcendentals." "Quasi-" because they shift as they condition. The conditioned back-conditions itself. The relation between the condition and the conditioned is the mutuality of a continual variation.
	Thus a collective individuation may have a destiny. Or more accurately, collective individuations are always suspended between more than one destiny simultaneously ("neo-finalism": the non-teleological theory of destiny, in which ends are in suspense [Raymond Ruyer]).  Their only destiny in the normal sense of the term is open-ended evolution. For in the potentializing tension between the poles of destiny, anything can happen. But again, a history is another matter altogether.
	History is the fiction of a linear progression of the relationship between substantial terms. This fiction is always retrospective. As a discipline, history has never had predictive power, and never will. The present that is narrated as anticipating a future outcome is, conveniently, a past present whose future has already come, and therefore no longer has the force to fight its written containment. A "discipline" is exactly what history is. It is a disciplinary forgetting of becoming and evolution/genealogy that retrospectively legitimates containment subsequent to the writing by authorizing the general principle that particular presents anticipate particular futures according to an inexorable logic of progression. The medium of history is not the collective change it narrates on the level of its semantic content. Its medium is anticipation in the imperative mode. The imperative--application in time, futurity as containment. History concerns the past of the future. The general principle of progession all too easily carries over the narrative content to become a general model. Implicit, or even explicit, in fictions of linear progression from remote past-presents to remote past-futures is a prescriptive model for the future of the immediate past. The "present" figures exactly as that, as an immediate past of the writing presented for reasons of extrapolation into the next step in the progression. When this "present" is explicitly evoked, it is habitually in a way that depicts the present using the same generic conventions as used for the past, and often in a way that somewhat grandiosely attributes the writing the power to regulate the future of that the passing present ("if only" people would listen to the words of the historically wise ...). The future-imperative mode of disciplinary history is what gives Foucault's call for a history of the present its radicality. 
	The future of the present is in the present, figured not as a point on a line but as a fractal in process. The future is in the transformative fissures and scalar spacings of the under-way (the actual). The present is radically open, self-standing in and between its processual voids. According to Benjamin, the "angel of history," history's redeemer, steps backwards into the opening. The "history" of the forwardly back-stepping (self-recursive) present is a modal conversion. It converts historiography (which, social constructionists tell us, makes history--and for once they're right) from an epistemology-in-the-imperative (a moralism) to an ethics, defined by the later Foucault as a coded practice of transformative self-standing whose primary mode is not that of the imperative (but instead the precept). "Ethics of the self" involve regularization: the inculcation of conducts, or habits. The habits are of self-transformation. Ethics is the regularization of becoming. What "regularization" as a predicate of becoming pragmatically involves is subject to any number of divergent channelings.
	Whether ethics, at vacuum-bottom, is ever of the "self" in anything approximating its usual sense is something that is called into question by the work of Nietzsche (from whom Foucault borrowed the distinction between morality and ethics) and the work of Deleuze. That ethics is self-recursive says only that it involves practices of self-reference (the process of the folding back upon itself of the event)--not that it takes "the" self, as an empirically existing term, as its "object." History, as ethics, is not an empirical discipline. Rather, like science and religion, it is a pragmatics of potential. Its "true" "object" is incorporeal ("true" progress: another attractor state that cannot exist).
	If ethics is about regularization, history in the usual sense is about regulation. There are in fact at least two ways in which historiography, history as linearizing writing-effect, does indeed regulate the future, without most people even having to listen. One way is through governmental policy tie-ins. These are usually funneled through neighboring disciplines, such as economics, social psychology, sociology, and a significant newcomer, "cultural policy studies" [Bennett]. The other is by becoming part of an oral tradition of certain kinds of contestatory collective individuations (for example, the self-narrating promoted by formations practicing "identity politics" in  the event-spaces of ethnicity and gender). In both cases, history is a regulatory self-expression of the Static. In the case of the two event-spaces of identity politics, the Static takes the form of a proto-State or State-like formation, respectively. Wherever there is a political movement that requires its component bodies to narrate the tale of their determination by the past, and to extrapolate it into a determination of a model for the future as a logical progression from that past, bureaucracy and censorship are not far behind. Those who "understand" the past condemn the rest to repeat it--at least the part of it that involves Static regulation. "Resistance" of this kind is a claim to a piece of the State pie. History is the performative narration of usurpation of variation. It is a language of power. To the extent that it involves fictions of redemption or damnation, history is tanatamount to a State religion. It was accurate of structural anthropology to characterize so-called "primitive societies" as "societies without histories." Non-State groupings have becomings and evolutions, but no history--other than that of colonization, the "applied" history of State imperialism (in pre-twentieth century Europe, that history was explicitly couched in religious terms of "manifest"--as opposed to suspended--destiny). The failure of structuralism was that it managed to miss all three. It conflated becoming and evolution, transposing both into a "synchronic" condition. That conditon was indeed an immanent cause, but a formal rather than a real one (a condition of possibility rather than of real emergence). In the same gesture, history was transposed into the serial expression of permutational possibilities already latent in the generative matrix of the synchronic: a "diachrony." Possibility is how potential appears as a theoretical-fictional character in the present tense of the narration. If a fiction is a specter, then possibility is the shadow it casts on the narratively eclipsed present: the singularity of sensation twice removed.
	Like "subject" and "object," real fictions of historical progression and causality are necessary as well as fictional. If "resistance" or reform can make State regulation more equitable and inclusive, it is no small accomplishment. For many people, it is a matter of survival. That history is a power language expressing possibilities is precisely what makes it a necessary tool. The potential and the virtual are by nature unpalatable to the Static, even though it is destined to stagger along with them. Possibility it can deal with. The point of narrating the narrations of history as containments and resistant or reformist counter-containments is not to condemn them as a moralistic gesture. It is simply to point out that in addition to the historical determination of possibilities, there is trans-historical openness--the self-recursion of the present. Becoming-backwards. Becoming staggers history, and history hobbles becoming. The retrospective-prospective (linear progress) is in co-conditioning embrace with the self-recursive (the suspended destiny of the open field of the actual, potentialized by virtual poles with reference to which charged directional movements are mapped, even though they are never on the map, being points of arrival that are in unflagging displacement: pure futurities occupying the zero-degree of the present, the fissures and spacings of its folding back upon itself in continual self-variation).
	"Queer" politics is the politics of becoming backwardly-forward par excellence: up the ass of the angel of history. Its medium is transformative indeterminacy. Rather than primarily narrating, it performs. It is a movement in search of transducers of the present, rather than organizing itself around anticipations of regulation. Queering is a politics of situational fissure, rather than of the regulated progression of terms in extrinsic relation. Despite their stylistic differences, identity politics and queer politics would do well to stress the complementarity of their agonistic self-standings (their effective diverging-together as multiplicities) rather than their "difference" (their representational standing in one-to-one opposition or contradiction). Perhaps a supplementing symbiosis between them, as co-functioning differentiations following different rhythms in a shared field of potential, would help stave off colonized symbiosis with the State--or bloody "division" by it. It is better to hobble and stagger than to fall bleeding into the abyss. Benjamin's messianism was a point of conflictual embrace between State religion and becoming. Queer politics, emerging under the pall of AIDS, struggling against seemingly apocalyptic odds, put a twist on the messianic that it will feel for a long time to come.
	Now we are in a position to return to "culture" and "society." It was something of an exaggeration to say that they have no body. It is more accurate to say that their only embodiment is in linguistic signs. Terms for collective agency are examples of virtual poles with no self-standing field of potential. Language is their only ground. They have no other standing. They are purely abstract tendencies in search of an event-space to call their own. The ultimate power of language is to transmit virtualities without their having potentialized in any other field of immanence, or having actualized in an associated milieu. Language short-circuits becoming. Up to now, the potential and the actual have been presented as coming to singular expression in sensation, which diverges into general-particular expression in language. The agonistic embrace of the singular and the general-particular, in mutual supplementation, expressed itself in turn as evolutionary drift. Language, however, can create virtual "objects" that double no substantializable terms. The usage of these signs is doubled by otherwise disembodied sensations and intensifications (fictional meanings, words with no substance or referential "content," but with modulatory effect due to their resonance with substantializations already stockpiled in the body). With usage, they may take on a periodicity that starts to self-compose an abstract event-space for them. For example, a genre of writing or speech. From there, they may migrate outside of language, perhaps into a discipline or movement that gives them the beginnings of a substantial event-space. That event-space does not resemble what the name means. For example, the discipline of sociology does not resemble "society." The event-space is an associated milieu  framing the circulation and repetition of the name, not the event-space of its self-standing or self-reference.