deposit themselves outside language. They self-soil. They self-ground in substance. They sow themselves into the actual, as incipiently embodied sign-elements capable of being prehended, and thus of entering evolution. They have begun to become. 
	The logical order of emergence is oddly spliced: from the general-singular to becoming-particular. It is the ultimate power of langauge to splice specters to life out of its own thin air: to make fiction transpire, to short-circuit the distinction between fiction and fabulation.
	The seeding of the actual with language-borne germs of evolution involves a special kind of generality. Normally, the general and the particular go together, as two-sides of the same operation on singularity, ending in linguistic blockage, the capture of singularity in an endless dialectical loop. Here, the general and the singular go together, and the particular emerges from their embrace as a substantial creation. The kind of generality that goes together with the singular deserves a different name: call it the generic. Or more tellingly, the singular-generic. The singular-generic is a virtual pole doubled by a sign-body that envelops unexpressed tendencies and deposits them--still unexpressed, as only the vaguest of echos of the future--into sensation. From sensation, they seed the actual. This is a reverse expedition. It is as if the pole held rolled up within it all movements toward it, all displaced arrivals at it, all directionality it might guide, all charged movement in the field it might govern, all potential it might trigger--before any of it ever happened. Rolled up in the sign-body is a virtual map of an entire field of potential, and rolled up into that is the substantiality of an event-space, or perhaps an entire world, complete with flag-bearing explorers. The pole is pure unexpressed force. The signing of the pole is the forced emergence of a pure event, from a phase prior to empirical mixture, prior even to its own happening. The singular-generic is a whole world outside-in. Pure immanence in language. A sown singular-generic is spoken into being as an incipient event. Language has an invocational power capable of calling forth abstract realms populated by spectral beings, as by alchemical formula or shamanistic spell.
	A singular-generic term for collective agency is the being in language of a people yet to come [Deleuze and Guattari CITE] (as opposed to its being for language). It is a virtual people whose world or event-space has yet to compose itself. The invocation is messianically addressed to an already-constituted set of individuals apt to serve as a host population for the coming event, donating their corporeality and their persons to serve as the germinative soil of the incipient event: its event-space. What will that event-space be when it grows up?
	Most likely a State or State-like formation. Say "Israeli." The individuals apt to serve as a host population for the "coming community" [Agamben] are already-constituted negatively by State-condoned or State-directed violence--as a general class of victims. German victimization of the Jews, following the Nazi refoundation of the German nation, catalyzed the formation of the State of Israel after the war, when the full extent of the Nazi extermination drive became widely known. Survivors of the Holocaust donated their bodies to the composition of an event-space they could call their own, and call their own into, as a protective envelope. Now say "Palestinian." The formation of the State of Israel catalyzed the formation of the Palestinian proto-State. This is in no way meant to equate or even compare the violence of the Holocaust with the violence of the Israeli State against the Palestinians. It is meant to illustrate how the language-borne short-circuit of becoming performatively unfolds into an evolution bearing multiple histories. The call to community makes the class of victims self-standing. It changes their sign, from a negativity to a positivity. It does this by interpellating the vicitimized bodies not as victims, but as survivors. It interpellates them through the effect of the victimization as it still lives within them, and they live with it: the trauma and the memory, whether first-hand or transmitted. The accumulated sensations remain ineradicably in the body. The invocation of a haven and homeland bundles the sensations together into prospective whole: a bounded space of well-being where the survivors will cease to be survivors, and start to live all over again, to live a life defined by their positive capacity to protect and sustain themselves for a common future rather than by the negation applied to them in the past by the State. They become a self-standing population whose collective event-space is grounded by the national boundary markers, but whose corporeality, or dynamic abstraction, continues to be conditioned by the positively converted victimization, translated into a linear history leading to liberation and foundation. This positivization of victimation, this conversion of violence and death into more life, materializes out of the thin air of language. It first takes shape as an amorphous struggle, a tension in a force-field whose self-recursive evolutionary drift is subsequently linearly expressed in the history of the foundation.
	Or rather, multilinearly expressed in competing histories of counter-foundation. For as earlier indicated, individuations always come in packs. States emerge between States, both geographically and temporally. Their emergence is cascading. Every State, no matter how "progressive," will create a class of victims in one way or another, from soft assimilation to brutal  expungement. This is a function of the general-particular mode of operating of the Static, which perceives the singular-multiple only in the negative and is not inclined to tolerate it. The State must translate anything that does not fit its transcendent model of the State "subject" or "citizen" into its own regulatory terms, if necessary by direct applications of force. Or it must expunge it. Containment is membranous, a regime of openness. No State could survive for long within a closed regime of openness (although some, like Albania and North Korea have tried). Containment is by nature porous. State boundaries are fissured. Even behind closed borders, there is always a "minority" already within the State whose presence is an irritation, to the purity its "Idea" as to its  representational sub-bodies: a fractal "citizenry" that is in it (its fissures) of the State but not of it. And is thus considered parasitic. There is always a fractalized population in the pores of the State that the State wants to exterminate like vermin, or at best to reduce to a functioning part of itself through the application of its model. There is always a Jew or a Palestinian within the State, or at its threshold.
	Due to the peculiar nature of the fractal dimensionality, the pore-population is also invocable as a whole. The invocational conversion of this virtual community into a potential whole creates the conditions of emergence for a next State. The belonging to  be effected through the new State does not preexist. The people to come is defined only negatively by the State. In its own terms, it is fractalized, a continuum of variation (plotted by such axes as "pure" or intermarried ethnicity, more or less traditional, more or less religious or belonging to different religions, darker or lighter of complexion, more or less educated, richer or poorer ...). Each part of the fractalized continuum is in actual or potential connection with every other part. But the continuum does not add up to a whole. Positive differentiations between tendencies within the population emphasize themselves. Being a fissured continuum of variation, the population has no precise boundaries. It fades off vaguely, beyond thresholds of intermarriage or traditional practice or complexion. Until the State negation takes root. Proto-State identity--the sensation of belonging together as a general class of people rather than a complexly differentiated population extending across several axes of variation--identity is the form that State negation imposes on the victimized population. That form is retained when its sign is converted from the negative to the positive. Identity is the residue of oppression deposited in bodies in struggle. Identity is recognizability by or as a State. It is the State Idea applied to the humanoid body.
	The primary point here is the conversion is of the nature of a pure event, a pure becoming, an incorporeal transformation effected in language: a performative sowing of a now potentialized virtual object as an evolutionary-historical seed of a nation [Deleuze and Guattari CITE]. The collective name that is performed is an inductive sign that catalyzes the event of its own embodiment (is emergently self-transducing).
	Now look at the compass again. Think "East" and "West."