Imagine for a moment you that are an intelligent insect. Would things be different? This is the question Stelarc seems to be asking in some of his first performances, in which the artist and the audience donned helmets designed to scramble binocular vision by superimposing fragmented rear and side views onto the normal frontal view, producing a technologically assisted humanoid version of the compound eye of the insect.viii If you had compound eyes would the properties of the things you perceived be the same? Couldn’t be. If their properties were different, would they be the same things? More or less. 
In other words, no. This is not an argument for the relativity of perception. Far from it – it is an argument for its necessity. What does the bee see and smell in the flower? Enough to extract pollen from it. A creature’s perception is exactly proportioned to its action upon the thing. The properties of the perceived thing are properties of the action, more than of the thing itself. This does not mean, on the other hand, that the properties are subjective or in the perceiver. On the contrary, they are tokens of the perceiver’s and the perceived’s concrete inclusion in each other’s world. The perception lies between the perceiver and the perceived. The sight of the flower is an actual bodily conjunction, a joint material connection of the perceiver and the perceived to different ends of the same reflected light wave, in different ways. That differential conjunction is the latency of a next conjunction. The contour and fragrance of the flower are the presence, to both perceiver and perceived, in different ways, of a possible touch, where once was only sniff and see. It is an understatement to say that a creature’s perceptions are exactly proportioned to its actions. Its perceptions are its actions – in their latent state. Perceptions are possible actions.ix They belong to two orders simultaneously: an order of substitution (one conjunction relayed by another: action) and an order of superposition (the latent presence of the next conjunction in the actual one it will relay: anticipation). Both orders are real, and express a material necessity (nourishment).
Orders of substitution and superposition are orders of thought, defined as the reality of an excess over the actual. This clearest in the case of anticipation, which in a real and palpable way extends the actual moment beyond itself, superposing one moment upon the next, in a way that is not just thought but also bodily felt as a yearning, tending, or tropism. But the definition also applies to substitution, which never come in ones. There are any number of possible next connections. The bee may be laden and skip the flower. Or instead of collecting, it may return to the hive to signal the source of food. Or it may see be duped by a blossoming mimic into trying to mate instead. Or it may mate and eat. Substitutions are cases in a combinatoric (a system of “either-ors” sometimes conjoined as an “and”). Not all possible actions are present as perception to the same degree. All of the permutations composing the combinatoric are not actionably present to the same degree in every perception. Each perception is surrounded by a fringe of unlikelihood, of impalpable possibility.x Perception shades off into a systematicity whose exact contours can only be thought. 
Perception and thought are two poles of the same process. They lie along a continuum. At one pole, more than one substitution are actively superposed, enveloped in the feeling of anticipation of a next action, not yet determined. This is the perception pole. At the other pole, all possible substitutions are present, deactivated and without overlap, unenveloped in feeling. They are unfolded from action and feeling, arrayed in extrinsic (either-or) relation to one another, determined as alternatives to one another. This is the thought pole. The poles of perception and thought are at the limits of the same continuum. One limit is the mixture of experience as it passes on: action under way and on the way to the next; sensory plug-in; the recognition of having actively plugged-in before, memory or the already-thought; the feeling of tending to act-think again. The other is a purification of experience, thought-out (the only-thought). At any given conjunction, a creature’s activity, or lack thereof, will place it in the perceptual in-mix and simultaneously at a certain degree along the continuum toward the out-thought, depending on the extent to which it can project into a future an array of action-substitutions to choose from. This forward projection of perception into latent action-choice is its possibilization. To possibilize is to stretch perception down the continuum in the direction of the only-thought. Each actual conjunction is a dynamic mixture of different orders materially combining the experience of the actually under way with possibilizing extensions beyond itself. The inextricability of the experiencing and the extension make perception an analysis in action and the perceived “thing” a sensible concept.
Every creature connecting with a flower will think-perceive it differently, extending the necessity of its perception into the only-thought of possibility to a varying degree. The lower the degree of possibilization, the vaguer the anticipation, and the more mixed are the alternatives it presents with each other and the feeling of tending enveloped in the action under way: the less thought-out it is. The flower is each of the thought-perceptions in which it is implicated, to whatever degree of thought-perception. Which is not to say that there are as many flowers as there florally conjoined creatures. The flower-thing is all of the thought-perceptions in which it is implicated. Latent in the flower are all of the differential conjunctions it may enter into. The flower, as a thing “in itself,” is its connectibility with other things outside itself. That connectibility is not of the order of action or thought-out anticipation, and is therefore not in the mode of possibility. It is of the order of force.  Each connection is a shared plug-in to a force emitted or transmitted by the flower-thing. Like a light wave. The latency in this case is in the mode not of the possible but of energetic potential. There is more potentially emitted or transmitted by the flower than any necessary perception of it picks up on (more ...). The bee’s hungry or horny perception is not “relative” to the flower. It is selective of it (...  and less). Perception, even before its thinking out,  is a limited selection, an actualization of potential plug-ins. There is more in the “thing” than in the perception of it. The feeling of anticipation as such – as enveloped in action under way in all its mixity, and as distinct from the alternatives it can think out into – is a registering of potential. This pending feeling of being selectively plugged-in to forces, this registering of a nextness betokening always more: this may be called sensation. Sensation is the registering of the multiplicity of potential connections in the singularity of a connection actually under way. It is the direct experience of a more to the less of every perception.xi It may be considered a third pole or limit of experience, accompanying each degree of action-perception (that is to say: it is a limit of experience immanent to every step along the continuum).
The latency of the potentials in the flower constitutes an order that follows different rules of formation and is broader in band-width and more complexly woven than any possible combinatoric extracted from it. The thought-system of the possible is a necessary loss of order relative to potential.xii The latency of the flower is inexhaustible. There are no doubt insectival ways of plugging into floral forces that no bug has yet experienced. More than that, the humblest flower enfolds forces no creature, not even a human, will ever know to connect to: colors outside the visible spectrum, forces too small, too large, too subtle or simply too different to conjoin. To answer the question, the flower the bee sees is not the “same” flower a human sees. It is a particular, need-oriented selection from the experience of the singular multiplicity that is its inexhaustible complexity as a thing “in itself” (in its potential connections).
So what does a human see in a flower? More than the bee, but by no means the full range of its inexhaustible complexity. A human will see enough to extract not just pollen for immediate collection, but, to cite but one example, a pharmaceutical for profitable distribution. Human perception is unique in the degree to which it can extend itself into the only-thought, and thus into the future in more and more varied ways. It can do this because it is capable of connecting with a thing as if it somehow existed outside of any particular perception of it. Saying that a thing might be considered to be outside any particular perception is very different from saying it is not all in any particular perception. Taking a thing as “not all in” the particular is to singularly sense the multiplicity of the potential for perceptions it connectively envelops. Taking it as “outside” the particular is to approach it in general, as if unconnected. Both are operations of abstraction. The mode of abstraction pertaining to the thing in general concerns the possible, purified of any unplanned interference from unselected-for potentials. The possible is not just an active selection of potential, but a systematic simpification of it (as if ...). Taken in general, the flower-thing becomes the object of a set of regularized floral connections systematized in such a way as to ensure the maximum repeatability of the largest number of actions, with the maximum uniformity of result. Predictability: anticipation perfected. The object is the systematic stockpiling for future use of the possible actions relating to a thing, systematically thought out on the general level of abstraction. Existing only in general, the object is imperceptible. The thought-unseen flower-object doubles each given flower-thing in the order of the possible. It is the future-looking shadow of the actually repeatedly perceived, blooming scentless. Regularized, repeatable, uniform connection – the systematicity of a thing  – constitutes a profitable disengagement of the thing’s thinking from its perceiving in such a way as to maximize its extension into thought under a certain mode of abstraction.
Paradoxically, this perfecting of the order of substitution is an intensification of the order of superposition pertaining to potential at the same time as it is a disengagement from it. Objectivity makes more possibilities more anticipatable, and thus more accessible as next connections. Objectivity shadows the perception with an increased charge of possibility, which cycles back into perception, to augment the potentiality of the thing it began by purifying, or thinking out. The forces enveloped in the thing have actually gained in the diversity of effects into which they feed. The connectibility of the thing has been increased: it now has more potentials. They have been sur-charged, intensified. The thing’s general selection returns to it as an augmentation of its singular multiplicity. Its simplification returns to it as a complexification, its loss as a gain in order. Possibilization and potentialization, simplification and complexification, fold into and out of each other. The loss of order is only a moment in an expansive process in which perception and thought form a positive feedback loop (as do things and thought, by way of perception). Things, perception, and thought are in a reciprocal movement into and out of each other and themselves. They are moments or dimensions of the same process of mutual reinforcement and co-conversion. Sensation is the point of co-conversion, through which the variations of perception and thought on each other and themselves play out. It is the singular point where what infolds is also unfolding.
The overall process of the actual extending into the possible, then  looping through sensation into a mutual intensification of potential, perception, and thought: this is intelligence. The part of that process consisting in the systematization of intelligence in the general mode of possibility is what goes by the name of instrumental reason. Instrumental reason is by no means all of intelligence, and is not even the only only-thought. It is a thought-variety (an analytic variety of the only-thought). Intelligence is an outgrowth of need. Instrumental reason is the extension of need into utility (a greater co-presence of possibilities, enabling a systematic construction of a combinatoric, and by virtue of that a calculated choice between possible next connections – even a methodical invention of new connections as previously inaccessible aspects of forces emerge in the course of probings of the thing designed to set its limits of possibility). A bee intelligently analyzes-in-action the flower, toward the fulfilment of a need. The instrumentally reasoning human extends the analysis-in-action in thought, toward the invention of utilities. There is no clear and distinct dividing line between intelligence and instrumental reason. Every thought-perception is both, to a varying degree, in mixture and co-conversion.
What else does a human see in a flower? Besides pharmaceuticals? Poetry, for one thing. The extension from need to utility can extend again.
Stelarc’s bug goggles fulfilled no need. They extended no-need into no utility. And they extended no-utility into “art.” They were an exercise in the perceptual poetry of instrumental reason.
We started out saying Stelarc was a body artist, and are now saying that his art is in some (poetic) way objective. This is not a contradiction. For the object is an extension of the perceived thing, and the perceived thing is a sensible concept, and the sensible concept is a materialized idea embodied not so much in the perceiving or the perceived considered separately but in their between, in their felt conjunction. But are the terms independent of the conjunction? What is a perceiving body apart from the sum of its perceivings, actual and possible? What is a perceived thing apart from the sum of its being-perceiveds, actual and potential? Separately, each is no action, no analysis, no anticipation, no thing, no body. The thing is its being-perceiveds. A body is its perceivings. “Body” and “thing,” and by extension “body” and “object,” exist only as implicated in each other. They are differential plug-ins into the same forces, two poles of the same connectibility. The thing is a pole of the body, and vice versa. Body and thing are extensions of each other. They are mutual implications: co-thoughts of two-headed perception. That two-headed perception is the world.xiii
Extensions. The thing, the object, can be considered prostheses of the body. Provided that it is remembered that the body is equally a prosthesis of the thing.
Matter, as it enters into the double analytic order of necessary substitution and superposition, and then extends again into utility – matter as it enters into things and objects – matter itself is prosthetic. Things and objects are literally, materially, prosthetic organs of the body.xiv But if bodies and objects exist only as implicated in each other, in necessary and useful reciprocity, then isn’t it just as accurate to say that the body is literally, materially, an organ of its things? In mutual implication, it is not clear who is used by whom.xv
Having a instrumentally reasoning body for an organ can be most useful to a thing. A flower in which humans see a pharmaceutical will grow in abundance. Is the flower an aid to the perpetuation of the human, or is the human, like the mimic-duped bee, a reproductive organ of the flower? Both. You can have it either way. It’s just a question of which pole you approach the question from. Human and flower are in differential, polar co-functioning. They meet in the reciprocity of perception. But the reciprocity is not a symmetry, since they plug in differently to contrasting poles of shared forces, and travel, through their forcible conjunction, in different directions: one toward individual health maintenance, the other toward species reproduction. Thought-perception is asymmetrical prosthetic symbiosis.
A flower in which humans see poetry rather than pharmaceuticals will also grow widely. And differentiate. The poetics of roses has led to a multiplication of strains, each bearing the name of its first human prosthesis. Need and utility lead to self-same reproduction. Uselessness, on the other hand, lends itself to invention. 
This link between uselessness and invention even applies to instrumental reason: a true invention is an object that precedes its utility. An invention is something for which a use must be created. Once the utility is produced, it rapidly self-converts into a need. This is the direction of flow of the history of technology (of which bodies, things and objects are the first artifacts): backwards. With invention, the perceptual direction of travel between the poles of necessity and utility, between the intelligence and instrumentality, possibility and reason, is reversed. An invention is a sensible concept that precedes and produces its own possibility (its system of connection-cases; its combinatoric). An invention is an in situ plumbing of potential, rather than an extrapolation of disengaged possibility. It is a trial-and-error process of connecting with new forces, or in new ways with old forces, to unanticipated effect. Invention is a plug-in to the impossible. It is only by plumbing that connection that anything truly new can arise.
The goggles Stelarc invented effected an inventive reversion from human instrumental reason to humanoid insect-intelligence. Needlessly. The goggles are still waiting for a use to be created for them (and doubtless have a long wait ahead of them still). Stelarc’s art, in its first carefully engineered gesture, sets itself the project of applying instrumental reason in such a way as to suspend need and utility. His technically accomplished body-objects precede their possiblity – but stop short of producing it. If he is a body artist whose medium is also ideas, then he is not content with his medium. He converts. He began by approaching ideas as materialized thoughts, and making them into unthinkable objects – artifacts that can only be sensed – pure sensation. Then he put the unthinkable objects on the body to see what might become of it. The body and thought converge toward a shared indeterminacy. They are together in the sensation. You can’t begin to know what a bug-goggle can do until you don it. You have to experience it even to begin to imagine a use for it, and what your body is with it. “Imagine” is still too reasoned a term: any eventual use is impossibly enveloped in a definitely felt but still undefined experience, compoundly unpreviewed. Which is why the goggles were deployed in performances requiring audience participation.xvi The goggles were the trigger for a collective thought-body event ever so tentatively suggesting the just-beginnings of a symbiosis: a pending tending-together. 
Stelarc’s is an art of sensation. Sensation is the direct registering of potential. It is a kind of zero-degree of thought-perception, and of the possibility it disengages, at the point at which it all folds vaguely together, only sensed, pending action and a reconnect to need and utility (whose impending is also sensed, only just).  Despite its constitutive vagueness, it is a pole of thought-perception, whose every conjunction is accompanied to a varying degree by sensation – by the real unthinkability of things, the as-yet unnecessary and stubbornly useless, registering as a tending, as a to-come to be in the world. Sensation is an extremity of perception. It is the immanent limit at which perception is eclipsed by the sheerness of experience, as yet unextended into analytically ordered, predictably reproducible, possible action. Sensation is a state in which action, perception and thought are so intensely, performatively mixed that their in-mixing falls out of itself. Sensation is fallout from perception. Endo-fallout: pure mixture, the in-mixing-out of the most mixed. A receding into a latency that is not just the absence of action but, intensely, a poising for more: an augmentation. However poised, sensation as such is inaccessible to active extension and systematic thinking-out. It is an always-accompanying, excessive dimension, of the purely infolded. Like the possibility that thoughtfully unfolds, it doubles present perception. Two modes of abstraction, doubly doubling perception: the only-thought and the only-felt; the possible and the impossibly potentialized. These modes can be understood as concurrent movements of abstraction running in opposite directions (before feeding back), one receding into felt tending, the other laying out thinkable alternatives for the active unfolding of what had been only in tendency. The world concretely appears where the paths movements cross.
Both generality (thought possibility) and singularity (sensed potential) are in excess over any and every actual conjunction. The first because it projects itself outside into a systematic alternative to the actually given; the second because it folds into every given connection so intensely that it falls out of it into pure mixture (reciprocal immanence). Sensation and thought, at their respective limits as well as in their feed-back into each other, are in excess over experience: over the actual. They extend into the non-actual. If the alternative mode of abstraction into which perception extends is the possible, the intense mode of abstraction into which sensation potentially infolds is, at the limit, the virtual. Intelligence stretches between the extremes of thought-perception, from the actual to the possible, dipping at every connnection into the vortex of the virtual. 
Note: Although the distinction between the virtual and potential will not be crucial here, a quick indication is in order: yet another pair of poles (as Deleuze was fond of saying: always multiply distinctions). This time the poles are of sensation itself. The potential and the virtual can be considered the constitutive limits of the endo-fallout that is sensation. The virtual would be the highest degree of infolding-out. Potential would be its least degree, as it just begins to recede from action-perception and thinking-out, into non-possible latency. In what follows, “pure potential” can be taken as a marker of the “virtual”: sensation most latent. The continuum between potential and virtuality is of degrees of latency-by-infolding, or of intensity. The continuum of thought and perception with which this essay will be most concerned is composed of degrees of extension (development or unfolding). The distinction between the potential and the virtual, and their respective differences with possibililty, will be a main focus of the following chapter (chapter 5).
If you were an intelligent insect, would you be reading this?