Stelarc’s art produces the hung body. Hung things have entered science and lore under the aegis of chaos theory. The focus of chaos theory are events called “bifurcation points” or “singular points.” A singular point is when a system enters a peculiar state of indecision, where what its next state will be turns entirely unpredictable. The unfolding of the system’s line of actions interrupts itself. The system momentarily suspends itself. It has not become inactive. It is in ferment. It has gone “critical.” This “chaotic” interlude is not the simple absence of order. It is in fact a super-ordered state: it is conceived as the literal co-presence of all of the possible paths the system may take, their physical inclusion in one another. Criticality is when what are normally mutually exclusive alternatives pack into the materiality of the system. The system is no longer acting and outwardly reacting according to physical laws unfolding in linear fashion. It is churning over, in its system-substance, its own possible states. It has folded in on itself, becoming materially self-referential – animated not by external relations of cause-effect, but by an intensive interrelating of versions of itself. The system is a knot of mutually implicated alternative transformations of itself, in material resonance.48 Which transformation actually occurs, what the next outward connection will be, cannot be predicted by extrapolating from physical laws. The suspended system is in too heightened state of transformability. It is hypermutable. Hyperconnectible – by virtue of having functionally disconnected itself (“Anaethetized Body”). The system hesitates, works through the problem of its critical self-referentiality, and “chooses” an unfolding. 
When scientists use words like “choice” they are of course not implying that the system reflects and uses instrumental reason to choose from a set of pre-set possibilities arrayed before it. But it is no exaggeration to call the system’s intensive animation thought, defined once again as “the reality of an excess over the actual.” The self-referentiality of the critical system is indeed that. The possible futures are present, but only in effect – incipient effect (resonance and interference, vibration and turbulence, unfoldable into an order). Possibility has, in effect, materialized. The matter of the system has entered a state where it does not disengage a possibility, but instead absorbs it into its animated matter. Materially present possibility, once again, is potential. The system’s critical condition, of course, is as actual as any other state. But the self-referentiality, or infoldedness, of its criticality is not. What the self-absorbed critical system infolds is present only in potential, which doubles and animates the actual conjunction without being reducible to it.
Call a form of thought that is materially self-referential as opposed to reflective; that absorbs possibility without extensively thinking it out, or extrapolating from where it is; that embodies a super-order of superposition without disengaging an order of substitution; that infolds without extending; that does not imply a distance between successive states of a system, mediated by an intervening action, but rather their immediate proximity to each other, their inclusion in one another; that chooses according to principles unsubordinated to the established regularities of cause-effect; that poses an unpredictable futurity rather than anticipating outcomes – call that kind of thought operative reason, as opposed to instrumental reason. Not a purposive analysis-in-action: a hesitant self-definition in suspension. Not an extending out of matter into thought; not a doubling of perception by thought: a folding of thought into matter as such. Instrumental reason makes thoughtfully explicit what is materially implied by the criticality of operative reason. It is its unfolding or extension. Even as it doubles perception, it is already arraying futurities in extrinsic relation to each other: as mutually exclusive possibilities standing outside and against each other in principle. Possibility is extended potential – a prosthesis of potential. It is an out-worn double of the double that is potential, the thought-shadow it retrospectively projects. It pales in comparison with the felt intensity of the critical.
Now the critical point may be an interregnum between two different serial orders, two different systemic organizations with their characteristic paths of actions and reactions. Or, it may constitute a threshold between disorder and order, an entropically disordered past and a future of systemic organization. The most celebrated example of the latter case is the Bénard instability, which occurs when turbulent patterns of diffusion in a heated liquid spontaneously order into convection cells. The ordering is not predictable in terms of heat diffusion alone. In fact, according to the theory of heat diffusion it is so improbable that, in principle, it must be considered practically impossible.49 But it efffectively happens. Theorists of such “dissipative structures” explain that the self-organizing of liquid into a convection system is triggered because the instability of situation suddenly makes the liquid “sensitive” to gravity.50 Gravity suddenly registers, and resonates. The “sensing” of a force that up to that point was not pertinent to the system’s transformation and had been “ignored” triggers the self-ordering. Gravity, normally a potent force of entropy, induces a locally negentropic effect: an emergence of order from disorder. Sensed, gravity has triggered or induced negentropy. Gravity has appeared as a negentropic inducer of hypermutability and its unfolding. Given the turbulence of the situation, the particularities of the convection system induced by the sensation of gravity are not predictable; even when or if it the ordering will occur is not certain. However many times the experimenter succeeds in achieving the effect, it is always a surprise. Induction is the experimental production of the practically impossible. The “impossible” is practiced when a counter-effect is produced to the normal unfolding of the natural laws in play – achieved not by contravening them, but by combining them in such a way as to create an ineradicable margin of objective indeterminacy from which a new order spontaneously arises.
This suggests a definition of operative reason as implemented by humans (in other words, as mixed with purposive analysis-in-action in an extended situation). Operative reason is the experimental crafting of negentropic induction, to produce the practically impossible. It is pragmatic rather than analytic. It doesn’t master a situation with exhaustive knowledge of alternative outcomes. It “tweaks” it. Rather than probing the situation to bring it under maximum control, it prods it, recognizing it to be finally indomitable, and respecting its autonomy. Operative reason is concerned with effects – specifically counter-effects – more than causes. It deploys local interventions in an attempt to induce a qualitative global transformation: small causes with disproportionate effect, excess-effect, a little tweak for a big return. Operative reason is inseparable from a process of trial and error, with occasional shots in the dark, guided in every case by a pragmatic sense of the situation’s responsivity (as opposed to its manipulability). Like Stelarc’s art, and in spite of (or perhaps because of) its thoroughly pragmatic exercise, it is closer to intuition51 than to reflective thought (hence the serviceable but inaccurate evocation of “poetry” earlier in this essay). Following another suggestion of Stelarc’s, his art is more akin to alchemy, the qualitative science of impossible transfomations, than to high chemistry or physics, quantitative sciences of elemental causes. In a more recent vocabulary, Stelarc’s project is to practice art as a “minor” science.52
As part of that project, Stelarc’s suspensions return intelligence to the degree-zero of sensation. There, thought rejoins action, the body rejoins matter, and the animate rejoins the inanimate. These no sooner rejoin than re-unfold, divergently re-extend, to enter into extrinsic and often mutually exclusive relations with one another (in keeping with and revising the combinatoric of their possibility). Suspension is the counter-gravity ground-zero of differential emergence. Differential emergence from matter: the definition of evolution. What else would the ur-idea be? Stelarcian suspensions are a contrived induction of the conditions of evolution‑-that most global of qualitative transformations – an artful rehearsing of its repetition. Stelarc’s project is to tweak the human body-object into a sensitivity to new forces, or neglected aspects of familiar forces, in order to induce it into a state of hypermutability which, if inventively desired and operatively extended, might bring the big result.