A final warning on prosthesis, since it seemed to have established itself as the master concept in a great deal of  theorizing of cyberspace and the cyborg in the 1990s. As commonly used, the term refers to the replacement of an organ with an artifical double designed to fulfill the same function. Prostheses by this definition are need and utility oriented, and belong to an order of substitution. The possibilities for organic functioning precede the fabrication of the prosthesis. The actual artifact is a use-oriented image (an instrumentalized sensible concept) materializing a set of restorable organic functions. In other words, the prosthesis is the sensible concept of a pre-set system of possibility. It never leaves the orbit of the organic human body-object.
The operation in play in Stelarc’s project, on the other hand, has to do with extension rather than substitution. On the other hand: exactly. The robotic Third Hand attaches to the right flesh-arm rather than replacing it. It is a “prosthesis” in the etymological sense of the word: “to put in addition to.” As an addition, it belongs to an order of superposition. The tendency of Stelarc’s events is toward superposition. In the expressive events, the body is probed so that its inside is also an exterior. In the internet events, the body inputs information to the computer in order to express it or relay it as a force: the body places itself between information and force. The left side of the body receives programmed gestures fed in from a machine, to which it then choreographs a circumscribed voluntary response: programmed and involuntary. The body relays electromagnetic movement into organic movement and back again: organism and machine. Computer and robotic arm. Infolding and expression. Sensation and incipient action-perception.
In the networked fifth dimension or phase, the serial probings, sensitizations, expressions, transductions, relays, and transmissions of the body are coaxed into co-presence with each other. All of the operations are held in ready reserve, as randomly accessible openings. The body as RAO (random‑access opening) can connect in any number of ways to itself, its objects, and other bodies. It can open, split, and reconnect at any point, inside or out. It is no longer an objective volume, but an extendability. Its dimensionality has increased beyond the three of spatial presence: from the three-dimensions of the voluminous it leaps to a fifth dimension of the extensile. This dimension is actually fractal, between dimensions. Split and extend: the basic operation used to generate fractal figures. The “fractalization” of the body is no metaphor. It is an operation: the posthumanizing operation.
The operation of fractalization is posthumanizing because, featured prominently among its “ands,” is subject and object. In the internet events, the body was acting instrumentally as a subject when it sent out meaningful information and installed remote-control terminals and generally staged the event. But in the event, it was also on the receiving end. Information flowed back to it, not meaningfully, but felt, as a controlling force (“Ping Body”). This force of information  impinged upon the body split open: the body as an operationally opened, sensitized object. The cybernetic network makes the body an subject and object simultaneously, and asymmetrically (since in its different capacities it effects different kinds of movement: voluntary and involuntary for example). Of course, the body is always and asymmetricallly both a subject and an object. But in normal human mode, it is a subject for itself, and an object for others. Here, it is a subject and an object for itself – self-referentially. The one accustomed conjunction in which a human subject is also an object for itself is in reflective thought. Reflective thought aspires to self-mirroring symmetry. The networked coincidence of subject-object is neither reflective nor self-mirroring, but operative and relaying. The “self” of this self-referentiality is of a qualitatively different kind, one that operationally includes in its being for itself other individual human body-selves, as well as computers and phone-lines and electromagnetism, and any number of heterogeneous elements, forces, objects, organs. The body-self has been plugged into an extended network. As fractal subject-object, the body is the network – a self-network. 
It was asserted earlier that the body and its objects were prostheses of each other, and that matter itself was prosthetic. The fractal body brings this extensile mutuality to full expression. It is precisely the full expression of this aspect of the human that makes it posthuman. The self-network expresses extendability to a degree beyond the human pale. But extensile mutuality is also before the human pale: it is a characteristic of every perceiving thing, to the extent that it is capable of change. The extension into the posthuman is thus a bringing to full expression of a pre-humanity of the human. It is the limit-expression of what the human shares with everything that it is not: a bringing out of its inclusion in matter, its belonging in the same self-referential material world in which every being unfolds. The potential cyborg extensions of the human, once it has entered a hypermutably open state, are existentially unbounded. The self-network is a worlding of the human. The moon’s the limit. Or maybe not. Having counteracted the earth’s force of gravity, the posthuman body-world is in its own orbit: the becoming-planetary of the human.
The speculative limit is not merely the envelope of the earth’s atmosphere. More than a spatial bound, the limit is a critical self-conversion point bearing on the mode of existence of the human. Modally, the limit is self-organization – the self-network extended to encompass all aspects of what is, by virtue of that extension, ex-human life. So that the body doesn’t ever have to plug in. Wherever it goes, it is pre-plugged. The Media Lab’s dream of ubiquitous interface come fantastically true.71 The ex-human is now a node among nodes. Some nodes are still composed of organic body-matter, some are silicon-based, and others, like the ancestral robotic arm, are alloy. The body-node sends, receives, and transduces, in concert with every other node. The network is infinitely self-connectible, thus infinitely plastic. The shape and directions it takes are not centrally decided, but emerge from the complex interplay of its operations. The self-organizing network is the embodiment of operative reason expanded to fill the world. A brave new world – even if it never does get around to leaving the earth’s orbit.
This is the fundamental direction in which the Stelarcian project extends intelligence: the encompassing of instrumental reason in a system of operative reason tending toward pan-planetary reach. Instrumental reason is and remains highly relevant. How relevant reflective thought remains is not so certain. It is this uncertainty in particular that problematizes agency. The base meaning of the word “agency” in this context is the expression of intelligence in needful or useful action. Stelarc’s proto-self-networking internet events do not deny agency. Quite the contrary, they multiply it. Emergently. The extension into action has not fully unfolded. No use or need is actually fulfilled. Again, “movement” is a better term for what is happening than “action.” Movement, as understood here, is in-between the intense vacuum “activation” of sensation and extended object-oriented action-perception. It is more forthcoming that the former, but less outgoing than latter. It is the undergoing of qualitative transformation. The internet events catch agency in movement. 
Stelarc cites four kinds of movement in operation: voluntary, involuntary, controlled, and programmed.72 Each is in turn multiple, arising in different ways at various points in the relay system. Take “Fractal Flesh” again as an example. Voluntary movement figures in the setting up of the stage, the donning of the contraption, and the inputting of the computer commands, as well as in the performing body itself, as when it untangles wires, subtly changes posture to relieve fatigue, or choreographs gestures. It is most evident in the stomach-controlled movements of the Third Hand. Voluntary movement exercises reflective thought and/or analysis-in-action. Involuntary movement is present in the usual organic functionings of the body’s autonomic nervous system, as expressed in the sound relay. It is also produced in reactions to the electrode stimulation, for example flinching in reaction to the pain, or in the inability to successfully execute a willed movement due to interference of the movements induced by the electrode stimulation. The movements of the left-side arm and leg are controlled by the electrode stimulation. Finally, the parameters of the robotic arm’s movement and the repertoire of electrode inducible gestures are programmed. All of these modes of agency co-operate in the network: “already the beginnings of a symbiosis between the human and technology.”73
Any of these movements can be modulated. For example, the computer controlled arm and leg movements runs a continuum from “prompting” to full “actuation” depending on the intensity of the transmitted electromagnetic force.74 They can also form mixes: at any level below full actuation, the body can voluntarily inflect the controlled movement by offering resistance to the stimulated movement, or by following through on its momentum, extending or exaggerating it. Considered in their variations over the internet series of events, they can in addition occupy any node in a relay system, or more than one node at once. With multiple relays or feedback, the same node can exercise more than one mode of movement at the same time. 
The point is that while voluntary movement is necessary, it is in no way sufficient. It takes its place in a proto-self-network whose effectivity depends on all four modes working in concert, in combined mode of intelligent exercise that can only be characterized as operative, the most ecumenical of reasons. Of the four modes, human agency is only recognizably present in the voluntary. The hallmark of the human is spun out to a peripheral position of adjacency to the network (the console operator) and it is integrated in the transductive relaying (the artist). The peripheralization and the integration are forms of subsumption. The integrative subsumption is the more interesting, since it prefigures the destiny of the human should the network ever actually reach pan-planetary scope. As integrated into the network, the human occupies a gap in the relay. It inhabits the “split.” From the network’s internal point of view, the human will is an interruptor. It is an irruption of transductive indeterminacy at its very heart. Whether peripheral or integrated, human agency enters the network as a local input of free variation: in other words, a variation not subordinated to the programming of the self-network. The variation is “free” in the sense that it is a given for the network, which itself expends nothing to produce it. Something for nothing: the human becomes a raw material or natural resource for the network. The human’s two-fold “subsumption” through peripheralization and operational integration is not an obedience. If it is an exploitation, it is in the sense in which the word is used in mining and other extractive industries. Alternatively, it can be considered a capture, because as a raw material the human is fed into a process it isn’t in a position to direct (or even digest).
Interruption of the operative principles of reason; indeterminacy; given variation: the properly human is the unconscious of the network. The way in which voluntary inputs are captured, transduced, and networked is a technological symptom of the ex-human. That symptom does not register in the network in the mode in which it is input. It is input as will, intention, meaning, but is assimilated as relay motion. The humanity of the human is symptomatically transduced from the register of reflection and meaning to that of energetic transfer. As part of the same global transformation by which the human body becomes planetary, its humanity is translated into a local force. It is only as a local force that the properly human is registered, becomes conscious (operationally present) to the worlding network. Once the speculative pan-planetary self-network was up and running, all of this even would even apply to the human input of computer commands, and even to the programming of protocols. For in a decentralized network it would only be certain program modules that would be manipulable from any given node. There would be no single point at which the network as a whole could be reprogrammed.
In the self-organizing network, the human is no longer master and no longer central. It is subsumed. At the limit, in an integrative network, there is no center or periphery, only nodes. The human is fractalized. It is dispersed across the nodes and transversed by them all in the endless complexity of relay. The human is neither “all-here” nor “all-there”,75 neither inexistent nor fully itself. It is part-here and part-there, symptomatically transduced and transformed.
It was argued earlier that the “pre-“ and the “post-“ coincide in the evolutionary condition. This is easy to see in the self-network. The human body-node can transduce any mode of movement at any time. Its just-past perception or exercise of agency might be the next node’s about-to-be mode, and vice versa. The trigger-force of electromagnetism can travel instantaneously from any point in the network to any other. The past and future of any particular node have already unfolded elsewhere in the network. Not just its immediate past and future. Middling and remote pasts and futures also flicker across the web. The particular node’s entire combinatoric of possibility is actually present in dispersion. Not “engaged” with the present – electromagnetically embodied in it. But an actual possibility is not a possibility, so much as a potential. But potential is by nature infolded. These “potentials” are extended. To complicate things even more, possibilities-or-potentials of agencies the human body-node never were and can never hope to be (for example a computer program or a mass of information or a robotic limb) are also looming just over the next node. Possibility and potential collapse into actual conjunction. They are actualized, in mixture, in a melding of analytic thought and the forces of matter. A new mode of extended existence – an actuality of excess over the actual – is invented by the dispersal of agency. The dispersed co-presence of networked possibilities-potentials should not be seen as a mire of indistinction or a short-circuiting of change. It is not indistinction, but an order of dispersed superposition that in fact represents heightening of differentiation, since every node will occupy an absolutely singular conjuncture in the complex, transductive, superpositive flow. And rather than a short-circuiting of change, it is its actual embodiment: the self-organizing ebb and flow of agency-transfer makes the network a continuum of variation.
Will any of this ever happen? Should it ever happen? Doesn’t this whole discussion ignore the impoverished, and most especially non-Western, bodies that will be passed over in the postevolutionary rush, consigned to abject humanity on a thoroughly trashed planet? Doesn’t this beg the questions of power and inequality? These are legitimate reflective questions, to which the majority of us still-humans would probably answer “no,” “no,” “yes,” “yes.” But they are beside the problem. Not at all beside the point, but beside the problem. The problem, which Stelarc’s art both expresses and exacerbates, is that the process has already begun. However far the Media Lab is from achieving its dream-interface, however far the Internet is from the apocalyptic possible futures speculated for it, however incompletely the new media have been implanted, however faltering is their present state of interconnection, the modal conversion of the human has sensibly begun. The Stelarcian body answers the nagging questions about it with a “yes,” “yes,” “not necessarily,” “maybe-maybe not.” 
The reflective critical thinker anchors the discussion in the “no’s” of will not/should not, willing a clamp-down on potential in the name of justice. The experimenter in criticality starts from “yes” in the name of sensation, and leaves the field wide open. The Stelarcian desire is to affirm the conversion, not in order to denigrate the importance of the human justice issues it incontestably raises, but rather to enable them to be reposed and operated upon in an entirely new problematic, one that may even now be waiting for us around the next node. This experimentally open, affirmative posture can be considered a socially irresponsible approach to the problem of human evolution only if the critical thinker can answer an unhedged “yes” to this counter-question: if all of this doesn’t happen, will there be an end to impoverishment and inequality and will the earth not be trashed? Until that affirmation is forthcoming, there is no argument, only a clash of desires. Two desires implicating divergent modes of existence: affirmed ex-human intensity, and all-too-human moralism.
NOTES TO CHAPTER 4