This specular structure of doubled identity can be transposed into an intersubjec­tive structure with only slight adjustment. In the everyday intersubjective world there are of course multiple axes of vision, but they are still strung out along a single line that subordi­nates them to resemblance and self-sameness. This line is itself nonvisual, it is a narrative line. In the family or at work, you perform your assigned social role. You interpret the script, you visualize what it means for you to be what your are, parent or child, mother or father, boss or employee, cop or criminal, and  embody­ that visualiz­ation for the benefit of others occupying the contrasting but comple­mentary roles. For each role there is a privileged other, in whose recognition of you, you recognize yourself. You mirror yourself in your supporting actor’s eyes, and they in yours. A reciprocal difference stretches between paired retinal surfaces. Between them runs a narrative line carrying both social players across a series of regulated thresholds. You resemble each other more fundementally than you differ, by virtue of your shared participa­tion in the same narrative. The difference between you and your specular comple­ment is the minimal difference allowing movement. The axes of vision are at slightly skewed angles, so that the mutually self-defining recognition always impercep­tibly misses. This perspectival disjunction creates just enough of an imba­lance to prevent fusion. Saved from stasis, life goes on. There is change, but only minimal change, a skew-induced dynamic distortion generally consistent with sameness. You grow up, grow old, even reverse certain roles, perhaps becoming a parent, in any case turning into an adult after spending your entire life as a child. But you never outgrow yourself, however distorted your aging body and increasingly unfocused mind become. Privileged moments stand out clearly, perfect as pictures in a family album: birthday, graduation, marriage, anniver­sary, celebrating the raise, retirement. Plain old everyday you progresses through a sequence of life passages photo­graphically preserved as stilted poses. Your life passes before you in succeeding tableaux, contin­uity shots punctuat­ing a banal script just bad enough to systematically but modestly miss the mark. There is pro­gression, but no real transform­ation, the movement barely glimpsed. Wherever you go, there you are again. Unavoidably you. Then you die. This is utopia, 1950s style.