Reagan begins by saying that he was called upon to “portray” not a character but a “scene.” What he has to embody as an actor is more fundamen­tally an event than a personality. It is something that can’t be faked. He needs to know “how it really felt, short of actual amputation”: his challenge is to produce and coincide with a reality “short of” the actual. The event at issue is the culmination, in a verbalized coming to conscious­ness, of a transform­ation from one bodily state (characterized by mobility, the ability to walk) to a radically different one (character­ized by stasis, being bedrid­den). Reagan must embody the scene of a man recognizing himself as irretriev­ably changed, as having been transported in total darkness and unbeknown to himself from one perspective on life to another that is irreconciliably different from it. The actor’s labour is not one of the intellect – the act of recogni­tion is the end-result, not the means by which the scene’s reality is produced. Acting is a labor of feeling, but not only that. The feeling is inseparable from motility. Reagan becomes a travelling rehearsal. He moves from one place to another, and from one kind of observer to another, repeating the culminating phrase, “where’s the rest of me?” He starts from a difference between two unbridgeable perspec­tives which in their disjunction encompass an entire life, as telescoped into the absolute distance between being able to walk and being a cripple. Then he tries to learn how to cross from one of these perspec­tives to the other, by multiplying relative perspectives on the event they delimit but do not contain: the accident, by which the self becomes other than it was. The phrase marking the culmina­tion of the event in an act of instan­taneous recognition of self-as-other is dragged by his body through his everyday world. It functions through repetition as a trace of the transform­ation, a spectre of an ungraspable, unthinkable event haunting the flesh. He recites the phrase to different people from different angles: to himself in mirrors, alone in the car, in front of friends, phys­icians, psychol­ogists, and ampu­tees. He repeats it so often it becomes auto­matic. The event, still a trace, begins to circulate freely through all of the interlock­ing visual fields compos­ing Reagan’s empirical world. Finally, Reagan’s realm, that of the ordinary, and the realm of the extraordi­nary, the realm of the ungras­pable event, begin to contami­nate one another in a gradual contagion. Reagan’s entire world becomes colored by amputa­tion. He is stumped, repeatedly refer­ring to himself as a cripple. But he isn’t, actually, and he hasn’t yet produced the short-of actual reality of amputation. He only embodies its anticipation. The problem is that the perspectives he has connected to the event remain relative. They do not “agree.” They now communicate across their difference, but cannot be superposed. It takes an artifice to jolt them into a synthesis. One that Reagan is incapable of constructing. His compulsive rehearsing has only exhausted him and driven him into a panic. He can no longer act, in any sense of the word. His manic activity has only succeeded in working him into a state of heightened excitability that is at the same time the pitch of passivity: he has become a peripatetic panic autonomically repeating a line.