To recapitulate: Reagan invents a technology of the event that is also a technology of the self, and a technologizing of the self. He starts from the need to portray a scene culminating in an event that can be taken as exemplary. The accident, in the suddenness of its inclusively disjunctive transformation not only of the shape of a body but of an entire life, can be seen as a figure of the event in general. The generic or exemplary event is short of actual. It need only be acted. But its acting yields a reality of its own. Through his performance of the exemplary event, Reagan effects an actual change in his life. That change is expressed as a blend between the exemplary event and his ordinary world, a bleed between the two. The bleed occurs in a moment of prolonged suspense. Reagan’s activity both as screen actor and as actor in the everyday world is artificially suspended. Reagan’s line of sight is trained on his own body. It moves down his torso toward his waist, his center of gravity, then disappears, as if moving through his body’s center into another space, experienced as one of affect. A feeling wells. Reagan’s vision and body collapse into an inten­sity that increases in pitch the longer it lasts. The way for the welling of that intensity was prepared by extensive means. Reagan had spent his time leading up to the bleed moving between empirical contexts, each of which was characterized by a certain kind of relative perspective, in the sense defined above: an object (always Reagan) appeared before the eyes of various observers (sometimes Reagan), and was recognized as itself. In each context, Reagan repeated the same words. The words were treated as a kind of incantation, as if they enveloped something of the desired event, contained its trace. Their repetition deposited a trace of the event in each of the contexts, gradually colouring the everyday world. Conversely, each context left its own trace in the words. It is as if the words were absorbing the relative perspectives, absorbing traces of the movements accomplished within them, as well as the movement from one to the other, blending the motion of acting the exemplary event with ordinary circulation through the world. The accumulation immob­ilizes Reagan under its weight. He enters a state of passivity marked by heightened excitability. When he is placed in the rig, he continues to move, but in place. He is reeling, overtaken by vertigo, as if his previous move­ments were repeating themselves in intensity. Unmoving, he circulates between empirical contexts and incantations of the exemplary event. He relives them sequentially and simultaneous­ly, as if he can pass into each of those contexts and perform all of his rehearsals at the same time without moving his body or parting his lips. He is all eyes and emotion. When his eyes descend to the blankness at his waist, he is only emotion. He is no one, nowhere, in dark­ness. He is in an in-between space composed of accumulated movements bled into one another and folding in upon the body. And he is in an in-between time after before but before after, in a gap of suspended animation following the preparation of the event but preceding its culmination. He is in the space of the duration of an ungraspable event.ix The feeling of the event washes through him (or that in-between of space and time), a wave or vibration that crests in the spoken lines. This time, the repetition of the lines effective­ly produces the event. But the event, as produced, is different. It has the reality of an acted event, a performance: short of actual. The “short of actual” is expres­sed as a prolonga­tion of the intensive in-between­ness of the event in the empirical world. It is a subsidence of the emotion, a flattening of the wave as it spreads out to fill a wider area. Reagan will now be extensively what he just was intensively. He will be an ambulant blend of the ordinary everyday and of the exemplary event: he will be a walking amputee. His flesh will carry the mark of the artifice that jolted him into the event, endowing it with a kind of half-life: he will be a semi-automaton. He will find a method that will take this new self, semi-technolo­gized through acting, through a similar transformation, after which he will feel it to be complete.