Like Lovink, I share a concern with the ways in which analysis of the effects of contemporary media resorts to neuroscience, drawing especially on the indexical power attributed to images of the brain to prove that our minds are ‘devolving’ in some shape or form. But I think that such amassing of images and studies in internet and media analysis requires further attention. We should not turn away form neuroscience altogether and engage only in social and political critiques of internet, gaming or screen media trends. If the ‘neurological turn’ in and against networked media is a nebulous forking pathway, stretching its tendrils across a range of heterogeneous neurosciences, neuroscientists, networked media entities and media theorists, it is nonetheless materially embedded in the techniques and visuals of functional magnetic resonance imaging. It would be more useful to develop a technomaterialitst understanding of functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) together with Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and the way these dovetail with the concentions, forms and materialities of contemporary imaging. For example, the promise offered by fMRIs of providing an in vivo lens; a real time mind movie; or even the soundtrack to the brain’s activities. As nonscience trained thinkers, we need a greater understanding of what constitutes the materialities of the neuroscientific image and how such materialities engage with the ubiquity of ‘real time’ media imaging vectors.
 
I will also argue that the neurological turn against, in particular, networked media comprises not a so much a different path but part of a ‘neural’ continuum in which the technics of contemporary media are more and more imbricated. Along this continuum, we find a more generalised uptake of the neural as a means for extending a kind of symbiosis between new forms of software, computational architecture and soft ‘thought’. As it turns out, the recent push toward developing a general and global ‘artificial intelligence’ to accompany and ultimately overtake online search by networked corporations such as Google, also turns toward the neural. As George Dyson revealed as far back as 2005 after visiting Google Head Quarters in Mountain View California, the corporation had already begun its quest to capture the world’s data in order to build a form of distributed artificial intelligence: "We are not scanning all those books to be read by people," explained one of my hosts after my talk. "We are scanning them to be read by an AI." (Google employee quoted in Dyson, 2005). This may seem a long way from fears about the internet rewiring the brain. Yet, I want to suggest, it occupies part of a broad neural spectrum that pervades networked media research and development. A neural spectrum in which, at one end, it is asserted that our media rot our brains; and, at the other, a more subtle insertion, in which networked media interstitially territorialise circuits of thought and action. Google’s shift from search to AI – pre-empted in 2005 and announced more formally by Eric Schmidt Google’s CEO in 2010 (Schmidt quoted in Jenkins, 2010) – stakes a claim for a new space of soft thought that will, eventually, not take over from human thinking in this paradigm but will have already insinuated itself as antecedent to organic neural activity.