We set up at a community-based electronic arts institution,  the  Society  for  Art  and  Technology,  that  is located between the Montreal universities, in an urban space where Montreal’s different language communities intermix, and where academics, university-based artists and community-based independent artists can come together. We tried to think of how to create events that would bring people together, not on a blank slate, not even on even ground, but rather from a creative bias, from the angle of what most moved them, what moved their work, what made it  work.  The  first  thing  we did was to forbid anyone from bringing completed work. We wanted them to bring not the work, but what made the work work – the tendencies, skills, obsessions, attractions, inclinations that drove it from within. We set up a situation that for some would be interpreted as an artistic exhibition, for others as a conference. But it was neither. No one was going to show anything or deliver anything. The situation wasn’t recognizable, which we knew could be disturbing and might intimidate. We had to have a certain estrangement, but that wasn’t the point. It was just one of the enablements. We wanted to bring people together at their work’s constitutive level, whereas they are used to being asked to come with it already constituted. To enable the event we had to disable certain kinds of expectations. Suspend. Like a shock, but not in the macro sense. Just enough to give  pause  and  toggle  out of  default  settings.  We thought hard – by ‘we’ I mean a very dedicated collective involving students and others committed to the project – about what kinds of spatial setup would work best, how to modulate expectations as people entered the space, how to break expectations in a gentle and inviting way. We started thinking in terms of hospitality. That became our model. How do we create enabling constraints so that the situation is one of hospitality, not a test and not a show-and-tell. We tried to find very small, concrete ways of doing that, trying to anticipate the roadblocks that traditional events throw up. For instance, the moment of entry is crucial: how people enter an event implants all kinds of dynamics. Once they’re in, group dynamics becomes the next challenge. Take for example the plenary. You want some wholegroup interaction, otherwise the event feels dispersed and no one leaves with a sense that anything happened. But plenaries are deadly. People zone out. A few people dominate. Others don’t feel empowered to speak. Discussion get too general, with the same words being used with different connotations, and no one really connecting with what anyone else is saying. It’s deadly. But if you have small groups, how do you form them, and what do they do, so that they are not just plenaries in miniature? And if something really happens in a small group, which is where things are most likely to happen, how do  you convey  that to  the other  groups, or  the group as a whole? These were the kinds of questions we asked.