Erin Manning: I’m thinking of one example. I’ve been doing a lot of work with autistics. Many of them explicitly think of themselves as an ecological field, or a speciation as I described it earlier. Tito Mukhopadhyay explains that this has to do with a sense of bodying which extends the feeling of self into the environment. He, like many autistics, has no real sense of where his body begins and ends (he speaks of flapping his arms in order to get a better sense of where his physical body exists in space). We also see this tendency of an ecological ‘bodying’ in young children where the limits between body and world are blurred. Brian told me a story about when his son Jesse was little: if he got hurt and Brian said ‘where does it hurt’, Jesse would point not to his body but at the ground where he fell. Sequestering the hurt to the body as we do when we grow up and learn how to distinguish the world from the body actually simplifies the ecology of the event. Because obviously the hurt – knee meets ground – makes no sense outside that event and can’t really be distinguished from it: it is a speciation, a resonant ecology that has pain as its time-signature but lives somewhere between body and world. This foregrounding of ecology over identity is something Mukhopadhyay talks about in wonderful terms in a book called The Mind Tree.6 One of my favourite parts of the book is where he gives us the typical scenario between the autistic child and the doctor, but in his own terms. That scenario looks something like this: the parent brings a ‘non-communicative’ child to the doctor and explains that something went wrong around the age of two. Before that, the parent explains, the child progressed quite ‘normally’ and then the child began to ‘lose’ language. And then a whole bunch of behaviours began to stand out: tantrums, extreme physical discomfort which a parent might not understand or take as the child being difficult or being moody, a lack of eye contact, and a general sense often experienced by the parent that the child is no longer communicating.