Brian Massumi: This connects in many ways with what I have been working on. Rather than separating out two types of experience, then calling one normal and the other not, what Erin was just saying moves towards an ecology of experiences where there is not only diversity but overlap. What she was just describing as an autistic experience or autistic mode of perception has a lot in common with that emergent level of immediation I was discussing earlier. The example of the knee and the ground is a really good one. When I asked my son Jesse where it hurt and he pointed at the ground, he wasn’t just pointing to a place, he was pointing to the event. At that age, children haven’t learned yet to locate pain in the conventional way, as a feeling separate from the event. The event has factors that we later come to locate as ‘out there’ as well as ‘in here’, so at the emergent level of immediation, the pain spans that difference. At that level, its significance is also not entirely defined. No child can ignore it, so it comes immediately with significance, but how much? What kind? Is this the kind of hurt it’s acceptable to cry about? The child will often look to the parent for a cue before following up on the pain with a cry. What our pains become for us is a product of learning how to parse the event in acceptable ways, but it never entirely loses its relational, transindividual span. Each pain event starts back in the interval Erin was talking about – x meets y, in an as yet indeterminate welling, and what x and y will turn out to have been, coming out of that encounter, is always up for grabs to some extent. This is another illustration of the bracing into a relational field I was describing earlier. Accidents are another example. As an accident is happening, time slows and we have this incredibly vivid sense of everything coming immediately together – light reflections suspended in the air, floating shards of glass, the sound of screeching tyres stretched out as if by a synthesizer, an infinity of details. It’s only later that what autistics call the ‘chunking’ into separate objects, factors and phases of the event occurs. And that’s all learned. There  are  techniques  for  that.  An  unexpected  event throws everything into the air, brings all of life’s aspects back into question. It’s what I call shock. But as Walter Benjamin said, it’s happening all the time in small ways. Something as simple as a shift in attention, even a blink,is a kind of microshock that forces us to re-establish focus, re-jig our potential actions, refresh our relational field – re-chunk. We’re constantly re-generating experience out of these interruptions, big and small. We’re a correlated population of intervals. As Erin says in her book Always More Than One, every experience we have starts anew from what she calls the autistic field of experience, or what I call the relational field in Semblance and Event. Her point is that all of us are on the continuum, we’re all on the spectrum, but some of us, those whom the autistics call neurotypical, chunk so habitually that they forget the relational emergence of experience.