For ‘Generating the Impossible’, one of the potlatch techniques we conceived of was that of the ‘free radical’, which we initially defined – with the assistance of Australian artist Paul Gazzola – as a generator of intervals. The free radical would in some sense be what is everywhere activated in the event. But in this case, it would also take the form of this singular individual, Paul Gazzola, and we would experiment with what this technique might produce. This technique came to us through thinking of the gift itself as a free radical – that which activates a modality of attunement where the field is both sustained and destabilized, done and undone, by what goes into it. The free radical in biology is a molecule that is necessary for metabolism, but that can also damage tissue – so a pharmakon of sorts. The task of the free radical was to help crystallize emergent collectivities of affective attunement, but also to disrupt them if they became too harmonious and started to settle into in-groups. A kind of trickster figure. In the end, I think it turned out to be a very interesting way to intervene in and move with the event. We collectively did eventually realize that the force of the free radical was based on our collective capacity to activate it everywhere in the shifting event-field. But it was useful for us to have it embodied in the first instance so we wouldn’t lose sight of it. This became a technique for conceiving of the potential of collective individuation to produce ecologies of experience that at once sustain it and reopen it to its potential. I should emphasize that our events are never created out of an ‘everything goes’ sensibility. They are crafted through experimentations with a structured improvisation that we hope can activate potential paths for collective exploration. So when I speak about what is left over, I am really speaking of excavating from the event its force towards the as-yet unthought or unformed. That this can fail is clear – and the failure then becomes another way of restarting, of participating, if possible, in a new kind of event-time.