Fundamentally, economies are qualitative economies of life-value, and the quantitative aspect is an index of that. Deleuze and Guattari say that there is an intuitive collective understanding of where the limits are for a given field. Not going past the limit, avoiding tumbling over into a new field, is a marker of people’s collective, affective investment, their differential attunement, towards staying in the relational field they’re in, not because of how much they get per se, but because of the life-values, the quality of life, that this relational field affords them. This is not of course a consensus. It can be a highly complex dynamic including opposing forces. In fact, the more complex the relational field, the more contested  its  limits  and  thresholds  are.  Deleuze  and Guattari’s point is that not moving over into a new field, not enabling or effecting a tip-over, is basically a collective decision involving affective evaluations that have to do with purely qualitative, integrally relational values. Those evaluations are not necessarily wholly conscious, or available for reflective judgement. In fact, it is certain that they are not, because of the points we’ve been making throughout this interview about how movement in a relational field by nature overspills the individual and its actuality. That is why affective politics are so necessary, and why they have to be directly collective. The challenge is how to practise an affective politics that is capable of addressing the nonconscious dynamics, that occurs on an affective level of immediation, and how to do that without becoming coercive. It’s in response to that problem that at the SenseLab we have been exploring concepts like technique of relation, gift, tweaking and modulation, conviviality, processual proposition, and lure. And we’re doing this within the wider perspective of anti-capitalist struggles. The marginalist logic of the limit, as reconceptualized by Deleuze and Guattari, applies just as much to the capitalist economy as to a tribal economy. For example, effectively addressing underemployment and exploitation, or addressing the ecologically disastrous capitalist imperative of endless growth, or truly addressing the innate tendency within a capitalist economy for inequalities to grow, and grow more and more intractable, could well lead towards threshold states. What does an anticapitalist affective politics look like that moves the global relational field in other directions? All I can say is that to improvise that kind of politics we have to take seriously the qualitative-relational workings of the field