Erin Manning: I think so, yes. I don’t know if you’ve seen Ari Folman’s film Waltz with Bashir (2008)? It’s a film I write about in Always More Than One. I am thinking of it here in terms of this virtual share of experience that can be made felt but isn’t actualized as such. When I was writing about the film, I knew that Waltz with Bashir was a film that was received quite badly by a number of left-wing academics in Israel and elsewhere, who criticized it for once more placing the Israeli experience at the centre, thus making it all about Israeli suffering. I read it differently, though, focused as I was on the way life was portrayed, and especially this aspect of the preindividual. The question for me was how life can persist, or what form life can take after a horror such as the Sabra and Shatila massacre. One answer to this would be to place everything into humanist terms. This, I argue, is what Levinas does when he goes to Israel shortly after the massacre and proclaims that there are times when we cannot face the neighbour, that sometimes there are enemies, pure and simple. I argue that at crucial moments a humanist ethics tends to fall back into the most simplistic differentiation of self and other, friend and enemy – an identity politics – even when its aim is complex, as Levinas’s surely is. What Waltz with Bashir does, I suggest, is take us elsewhere, away from a humanist identity politics to a different kind of politics, altogether different – one that troubles the very notion of the centrality of the face-to-face encounter – to ask us how the horror of the other’s face catapults us into an affective turn that destabilizes the very idea of ‘positioning’ that a politics of recognition presupposes. What Waltz with Bashir does that is so powerful and it does this through the movement of the image, the intensity of colour and sound, as much as or even more than through the narrative – is provoke another way of engaging with the as-yet-unthinkable (or as-yetunfaceable). One of the ways it does this is by continuously disengaging affect from the face of the human the human face moves from shot to shot in an expressionless sameness. What is active in the film is another kind of affective politics, one, as Brian might say, of bare activity – a welling of experience in the making. What’s important to me here is that we find ways of conceiving of a complex politics that moves beyond humanism towards a concept of life that troubles categories we too often feel are predetermined. This leads, perhaps, to a more complex notion of coexistence.