Brian Massumi: We talk a lot about what we do as a form of aesthetic politics. We think of it as aesthetic in an extended sense of that word, as referring to the ‘process of experience’. What the SenseLab does is experiment collectively with the process of experience as a practice of the event. When we say the word ‘aesthetic’ and put it together with politics a lot of the people bristle because they think of the aesthetic as sort of a realm of free play of unconstrained expression. For us, on the contrary, the aesthetic is immediately in connection with necessities of life. There have to be stakes for any activity to be compelling. The reason why a lot of people are drawn to the kinds of events the SenseLab organizes is that they feel they are beaten down in the situations they live in every day in their home contexts and institutions. It is not that there is no freedom in institutional contexts, but the options for resistance are pre-formatted by the modes of conformity that come to dominate the situation. There is little room for invention. People come to our events out of a sense of necessity, as an issue of survival. Many feel held back or battered down, and can’t see how to keep going. They may feel chronically fatigued, or that their creative potential is being drained. Their powers of resistance have been taxed too many times, and they’re looking for some way to recharge. It’s not an escape into an aesthetic field of free choice and unfettered expression. It’s a life necessity. What we provide in response to these yearnings isn’t an unconstrained environment. We often repeat: if anything goes, nothing will come. What we do is set in place, poetico-procedurally, enabling constraints. These are mechanisms designed to set certain conditions in place allowing for an inventive interaction to occur that is something like a structured improvisation. The situation is positively constrained: conditioned in a way that we hope will create the conditions for a process of collective expression to unfold, in the course of which something unexpected might emerge. The hope is that what does emerge might feed forward into further experimentation, beyond this event’s perishing, in a kind of contagion of collective potential. For us the aesthetic is not an escape from life. Quite the opposite: it is a different way of engaging with the necessities of life. It is the element of necessity, and the collectivity of the process from the very start to beyond its perishing, that make this kind of experimentation with expressive potential political. It’s a practice of a ‘politics to come’, to paraphrase the term of Deleuze’s we talked about earlier.