He says that these qualitative multiplicities of change are tendencies, an idea I find extremely useful. He says that tendencies do not relate to each other in the way that objects relate to each other. Objects are rivals. They cannot be in the same place, they mutually exclude each other. Tendencies,  on  the  other  hand,  may  clash,  but even as they clash, they can participate in each other – as in the way we say that love and hate do. Tendencies can interpenetrate, without losing their own character. Each tendency is characterized by a certain mode or rhythm of unfolding. Bergson calls it a ‘theme’, as in music. His idea is that in the incipience of an experience, at that pre-reflective level, where thinking is just coming about, at a level which cannot be separated from the body, there is an activation of a multiplicity of tendencies in a state of mutual interpenetration. The mutual inclusion is of tendencies activating without yet unfolding. But they are all together in the activation, resonating and interfering with each other, agitating among themselves to come to expression. This is what I call bare activity. What ends up occurring is a resolution of this bare-active tension. A dominant tendency might end up expressing itself, or it’s possible that a new tendency will emerge from the agitation. Even when a dominant tendency expresses, it will have been inflected in some way by its birth pains. It is only when the resolution comes that pluralities and unities appear. The tendential multiplicity expresses itself in a co-occurring of countable elements and pop-out unity effects. So you have a logic that has three levels, or dimensions: tendential multiplicity (qualitatively different modes of activity that you can’t separate out temporally or spatially); plurality (the diversity of discrete, countable elements that are spatialized); and the unity of those elements (a virtual pop-out effect, which appears in space but without occupying it, and fills the moment with a timeless figure, in the case of the example I used, a Platonic form).