Brian Massumi: Yes. In the event, the countable diversity is already there, but it is there as a potential, because seeing a triangle implies the threeness of the sides. But we don’t see it as a lateral threeness – we see it as the oneness of the triangle that takes the three sides up into its own unity. The diversity is enveloped in the unity of the emergent effect. That effect is not measurable as such. It is the singularity of the qualitative character of the event, more than it is a oneness of a triangle. What I mean is that the ‘unity’ of the triangle is different from the ‘one’ of counting. It’s not a one after which a two will come. It’s a one that finalizes everything that has entered into the event. That oneness that is the unity of that triangle has enveloped the plurality of the visible corners, as well as the multiplicity of the non-sensuous factors that enter in on the level of bare activity, in its own popping up.
So, in the end the unity of the triangle is supernumerary. It is beyond the logical measure of the event, because that triangle shouldn’t actually be there – and actually isn’t. It’s extra, surplus. It’s a surplus-value. The qualitative character of the event is what gives it its lived value, but the value is in the end a surplus-value. On the side of bare activity, the potentials mutually included as tendencies are also supernumerary, in the sense that you cannot divide them from each other and come up with a count, because in addition to each tendency there are the zones of indistinction between tendencies corresponding to their inter-involvement with each other, and there are also  the transitions between tendencies turning over in agitation, not to mention any new tendencies that might be brewing in all that complexity. Count them as you wish, but there will always be more – a surplus or remainder. At either end, in the incipience of event and in its final characterization, there is a morethan – what Deleuze calls ‘extra-being’. This gives a pronounced asymmetry to the world that keeps it lively. It keeps it off balance. The balance-sheet of becoming is always off kilter. The final tally is always an open question. Because of this, the world is always capable of surprising.