Brian Massumi: In my talk last night, I tried to develop Whitehead’s idea that care or concern is a quality of the event, and can’t be reduced to the interiority of a subject. If that is the case, then you would have to be able to find some modality or degree of concern in every event – even the event of the appearance of a triangle that isn’t actually there. The three circles with angles cut out that the triangle takes for its corners are discrete elements. In themselves, they are a simple disjunct plurality of separate things. They don’t concern each other. They don’t relate to each other, other than by resemblance – which is something we as perceiving subjects add to their separateness, in an operation of judgement that comes from outside their plane. However, in the event, we and they are on the same plane – the plane of the event. We are absorbed in the appearance of the triangle, unitarily popping out from their diversity. When the triangle emerges in all immediacy, it brings to expression a relation that what are now its corners do not have in themselves, in their simple diversity. It is only as they come out of themselves into the appearance of the virtual triangle that they come to relate. This is not a function of their resemblance to each other, but of their distance from each other – the differential between them. The triangle seizes upon the differential, or ‘prehends’ it, to use Whitehead’s vocabulary. It is this emergent prehension that makes them concern each other. They concern each other in the event of the triangle’s appearance. The virtual triangle is the form in which their concern for each other actually appears. You could say that this is a certain mode or degree of care. And you could generalize that. Wherever there occurs a holding together of elements as they are taken up in the production of an effect that exceeds their simple plurality, there is an emergent relation that makes the separate elements immediately concern each other. This applies to any event, everywhere in the world, on any level of matter or of thought – and everywhere between. Care or concern is always a factor in the genesis of events, even aside from the issue of human perception – even in material events in the absence of a human perceiver. An atom ‘prehends’ the subatomic particles composing it. Its unitary form is the form of expression of their eventfully concerning each other. Whitehead goes so far as to say that concern is an ‘ultimate factor’ of  the world. It is not a content of human subjectivity.