Affect is prelinguistic. Every act of language involves an expression of affect. Affect is the infra-conditioning of every determinate activity, including that of language. The preferred prefix for affect is ‘infra-’. ‘Pre-’ connotes time sequence. But affect always accompanies, on the parallel track of potential. ‘Intra-’ is also imprecise, connoting as it does space and containment (from interus, internal). ‘Infra-’ on the other hand connotes what actively lies below a certain threshold of appearance on an open-ended spectrum (as in ‘infrared’; from inferus, below). The threshold of appearance designates a turning point where the spectrum changes qualitatively in nature, while retaining the continuity of its constitutive gradations (as when infrared shades into the visible region of the spectrum, which is also the qualitative turning point where heat becomes light). There is no antinomy between affect and language. There is accompaniment and becoming, always involving the full spectrum of the graded continuum of experience. The nonverbal grades on the continuum of experience are not in opposition to the verbal registers, any more than infrared is opposed to red. They companion them (as any infrared camera will show). The infralinguistic registers of experience accompany linguistic expression. At the same time (and this is where the infrared analogy  breaks down),  they are in-formed by past linguistic expressions, through the complex feedback loops between nonconscious and conscious levels already described. And they in turn in-form linguistic expression with abductive thinking-feelings of the potential towards which speech acts may speculatively gesture, in their powerfully abstract  way. The infra-linguistic register of experience in-forms language’s capacity to modulate the mental pole of events. It primes and stokes language’s singular ability to exceed the given (its power to fabulate). As with all of the dichotomies that figure in this list of missed affective conceptions, the relation between language and the nonlinguistic must be understood in terms of a graded continuum of potentials punctuated by thresholds past which the mode of activity expressing itself changes qualitatively in nature.