Brian Massumi: Possibly, possibly but not necessarily, because, if you think of style or branding, it is an attempt to express what we were talking about before as the sense of vitality or liveliness. It is a selling of experience or lifestyles, and people put themselves together by what they buy and what they can do through what they can buy. So ownership of things is becoming comparatively less important. The centrality of ‘conspicuous consumption’ belongs to an earlier phase. It’s this enabling of experience that is  taking  over.  Now,  that  enablement of experience has to be tended. Companies work very hard to produce brand loyalty. ‘Fidelity programmes’ involving things like rewards points are  everywhere. The product becomes a long-term part of your life, you’re brought into a relationship with the company through fidelity programmes, service networks, promises of upgrades, etc. The way you use the product is also more and more oriented towards relationship – the most seductive products produce possibilities of connection. ‘Connectability’ is another buzzword. When we buy a product, we’re buying potential connections with other things and especially other people – for example, when a family buys a computer to keep in touch by email, or when you get a computer for work and end up joining online communities. What’s being sold more and more is experience, social experience. The corporation, the capitalist company, is having to create social networks and cultural nodes that come together around the product, and the product gets used more and more to create social networks that radiate out from it. ‘Networking’ was the buzzword in the 1980s, when this new kind of capitalist power was just coming into its own. Marketing itself is starting to operate along those lines. There is a new kind of marketing called viral marketing where specialized companies will surf the web to find communities of interest that have spontaneously formed. It started in the music industry, around fan networks for bands. They find a group of people who have a very strong affective attachment to a band or a performer that is very central to how they see themselves and to what they perceive as the quality of their life. They will network with them, offer them tickets or inside information, or special access, and  in return the members of the group will agree to take on certain marketing tasks. So the difference between marketing and consuming and between living and buying is becoming smaller and smaller, to the point that they are getting almost indistinguishable. On both the production side and the consumption side it is all about intangible, basically cultural products or products of experience that invariably have a collective dimension to them.