But there is a problem. It has to do with the future. Success, of course, is not guaranteed for any particular act, or any particular individual. The self-organizing of the system at the largest scale can synthesize its way past many a micro-failure. As choices percolate through the economic field, the negative impact of individual failures is compensated for oveall by the multiplier effects of the successes. Given the infinitely of accidents riddling the economic field of life and the existential blindness of all economic actors, there is an ever-present threat of a misstep. Every economic calculation is a calculus of risk. "Behavioral finance (psychology) and rational actor models (the 'rational economic man', or REM) rarely emphasize how UNCERTAINTY differs from RISK AND PROBABILITY" (Pixley 2004, 18). You can calculate risk in terms of probabilities, but probabilities by nature have nothing to say about any given case. The affect accompanying uncertainty is there, in any case. Choices in the present become highly charged affectively with fear for the uncertain future. The present is shaken, tremulous with futurity. There is no calculus of risk independent of an individual's affective self-relation to uncertainty. 
Even in the best-case scenario, rationality and affectivity cannot be held safely apart. Unlike the juridical subject of the law and the civil subject of society, the economic subject of interest is never called upon to renounce its self-interest for the general good.4 Self-interestedness remains "unconditional." It is measured in SATISFACTION. We have been successful in our self-interestedness if we have attained satisfaction for ourselves. What the economically productive subject of interest ultimately produces is its own satisfaction (Foucault 2008, 226). Paradoxically, the measure of HOW "RATIONALLY" A SUBJECT OF INTEREST BEHAVES CAN ONLY BE MEASURED AFFECTIVELY, in the currency of satisfaction. Rationality and affectivity are joined at the self-interested hip, in one way or another, for better and for worse. "Emotions function in the core structures of the financial world" (Pixley 2004, 18).
The subject of interest is never called upon to renounce self-interest. But it is frequently called upon to defer the very satisfaction by which its self-interest is measured. Feeling insecure? Be reasonable. Defer your satisfaction to a more secure time of life. Work toward retirement. But this is only a rational choice if you trust the system's self-organizing. This is an increasingly difficult sell as crises follow each other in rapid succession. Each crisis is a shock to the system, at all scales. Uncertainty starts to feed on uncertainty. Fear builds into panic. Negative multiplier effects take over. Household savings vaporize and national economies crumble. Suspicions grow that the invisible hand suffers from a degenerative motor disease. 
All signs are that the condition is congenital. Crisis no longer seems a punctual  interval between between periods of stability. Crisis is the new normal. That this should be the case only stands to reason. The premise of any rational calculation is that similarly strategized actions will yield similar results. But the whole point of an economy that selects for creative multiplier effects is that multiplier effects are nonlinear. By definition, they are effects that are not commensurate with their causes, even if the causes be known. The whole point of capitalist enterprise is to "leverage": to extract a surplus yield of effect over and above what would normally be expected to follow from an investment. The capitalist process is driven by the potential for, and yearning after, AN EXCESS OF EFFECT over any given quantity of causative input: SURPLUS-VALUE. The more complex the system is, the more uncertain the future becomes. And complexification has been a constitutive tendency of the capitalist system from its beginnings. Capitalism has always been a far-from-equilibrium system, becoming ever more so. The same multiplier mechanism that promises future satisfaction makes it exponentially less certain.
Why defer satisfaction if the capitalist future is constitutively uncertain? But on the other hand, how can you not play it safe by deferring your satisfaction, precisely because the capitalist future is so uncertain? This conundrum of deferral is an expression of the paradox that neoliberalism's promise of satisfaction unnerves the rationality it extols, giving it the affective shakes that cannot be cured. The rational risk calculations of the subject of interest become more and more affectively overdetermined by the tension between fear of the future and hope for success, and between satisfaction and its uncertain deferral. The embrace of rational self-interest and affective agitation becomes all the closer. They fall all the more intensely into each other's orbit, to the point that they contract into each other, entering into a ZONE OF INDISTINCTION, at the heart of every act. 
It's a vicious circle. Positive multiplier effects can be counted on only when individuals' rational choices mutually reinforce each other, catching like a contagion. This is the point at which rational choice is indistinguishable from "irrational exuberance" (in the legendary phrase of U.S. Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan). This is also precisely the mechanism that forms speculative bubbles leading to crisis.5 More radical than the fact that the same mechanism that promises satisfaction makes it exponentially less certain is the fact the attainment of the very satisfaction promised can itself bring on a crisis. The tired hound of self-interest, circling in for satisfaction, traces its own private vicious circle in its self-relating movements. Its sleep will be agitated. It will twitch with dreams of disappearing rabbits.