In times of crisis, the first words out of the mouth of any economic leader are: "we must restore trust in the system." But as systems theorist Niklas Luhmann blithely observed, under these endemic conditions "trust rests on an illusion" (Luhmann 1979, 32). In a chaotic economic field personal relations of trust are impossible to guarantee. "In actuality, there is less information available than would be required to give assurance of success" (32). "Linear causal explanations come to grief" (83). However well-intentioned the other party may be, they cannot be trusted. The nonlinear dynamics of the economy could well frustrate their best intentions. What's an enterprise system to do? 
If relying on personal bonds of trust is out of the question, there only one option: "depersonalize" trust." Make it "impersonal" (Lumann 1979, 93). Entrust the system. "System trust" is the only answer. But how does an individual trust a system that doesn't trust itself to follow its own line? "There must be other ways of building up trust which do not depend on the personal element. But what are they?" (46). Luhmann has an ingenious answer to his own question. You actually "SHIFT FORWARD THE THRESHOLD OF EFFECTIVE DISTRUST" (75). IN OTHER WORDS, YOU FOSTER DISTRUST AS A STARTING CONDITION (88). YOU FOSTER DISTRUST, BUT NOT AS THE OPPOSITE OF TRUST: AS ITS "FUNCTIONAL EQUIVALENT" (71). 
What on earth does that mean? It means that you "interlock them so that they intensify each other" (Luhmann 1979, 92). You bring trust and distrust together into a zone of indistinction where they are in such immediate proximity to each other that one can easily tip into the other at the slightest agitation. They resonate together, intensely. As actions are taken, the resulting affective state of the individual oscillates between them. Foucault notes that the "horizon" of the neoliberal field of life is one of increasing differentiation that is constitutively open to "oscillatory processes" (2008, 259).6 By differentiation, he is referring to capitalist society's overspilling of disciplinary modes of power based on normative models imposed on the individual, and the accompanying proliferation of "minority practices" (259). When he mentions oscillatory processes he is talking about the fluctuation of economic indicators such as salaries, job creation figures, industrial orders, and most fundamentally prices, which mark the ups and downs of the system's self-regulatory mechanisms. But the same description applies equally well to the smallest unit of the economy, the enterprising individual, as it does to the system as a whole. On the individual level, trust and distruct interlock and intensify each other, resonating together in immediate proximity, forming their own oscillatory system. As do fear and hope, satisfaction and self-denial, all in it together.7 
The individual subject of interest forming the fundamental unit of capitalist society is internally differentiated, containing its own population of "minority practices" of contrasting affective tone and tenor, in a zone of indistinction between rational calculation and affectivity. In other words, there is an INFRA-INDIVIDUAL COMPLEXITY quasi-chaotically agitating within the smallest unit. The individual remains the smallest unit despite this infra-level complexity, because what resonates on that level are not separable elements in interaction. They are intensive elements, in intra-action (Barad 2007, 33). They are IMMEDIATELY LINKED VARIATIONS, held in tension, resonating together in immediate proximity. Their oscillatory co-motion expresses itself at the level of the individual, where it is marked by fluctuating indicators, just as the actions of individual economic actors express themselves on the systemic level in fluctuating indicators such as prices. We call the indicators of the intra-action occuring on the infra-individual level moods. "Moods," Gilbert Ryle writes, are like "the weather, temporary conditions which in a certain way collect occurrences, but they are not themselves extra occurrences" ((CONDITIONS, INFRA-EMPIRICAL)) (Ryle 1949, 83). Moods collect infra-occurrences and sum them up in a general orientation giving direction to the next level up, just as price fluctuations collect the micro-economic decisions of individual actors and sum them up in the general orientation of the economy as a whole.
This means that we need to add a whole new dimension to economic thinking. Beneath the MICRO-ECONOMIC level of the individual there is the INFRA-ECONOMIC LEVEL. At that level, an affective commotion intra-churns. Its variations are so immediately linked that we cannot parse them out into separate occurrences. The individual, speaking infra-ly, is not one. It may collect itself as one. It may figure as one, for higher levels. But in itself, it is many. Many TENDENCIES: potential expressions and orientations held together in tension. Buffeted by these tendencies' coming turbulently together, divided among them in its relation to itself. Divided among them, awaiting their complex playing out in a shift in general orientation, the "individual" is the DIVIDUAL (Deleuze 1995, 180). The dividual is the individual as affective infra-climate, in relation to itself, commotionally poised for what may come, storm or shine, doldrums or halcyon days.
Nothing divides and multiplies the individual so much as its own relation to the FUTURE. The uncertainty is not just external, relating to accidents and the unpredictable actions of others. It agitates within. Even if you play it as safe as possible by deferring a decision until sunnier days to come, all you have done is find another way to increase uncertainty: now it is not just others' decisions that are unknown to you, but your own as well. "These unknown nondecisions recur endlessly" (Pixley 2004, 33). Who knows what will possess you to decide when to decide, or what you will decide when you do? You don't know your future self yet. You are infra-buffeted by your own unworked-out tendencies awaiting a complex playing out that is as likely to surprise you yourself as any stranger. Weather forecasting is as unpredictable in the infra-climate of the (in)dividual as at other scales.
The affective infra-climate of the dividual poised for what may come is the rabbit-hole of the economy. The unknown nondecisions and not-quite-occurrences recurring endlessly in a turbulence of tendency are complex in the same way as the economy as a whole. Both are like the weather, quasi-chaotic self-organizing systems. This puts a whole new perspective on "rational" choice. The individual, Foucault said, is unconditionally referred to itself, and this referral is irreducible and nontransferable. This means that rational decision is unconditionally, irreducibly, nontransferably refered to an infra-individual zone of indistinction with affect. RATIONALITY AND AFFECT BECOME "FUNCTIONAL EQUIVALENTS" by Luhmann's definition: interlocked and mutually intensifying, in a zone of indistinction, at the "forward threshold" of economic existence.
Luhmann's analysis of trust posits that this infra-level of individual complexity is directly connected to the collective, macro-level of the economic, without necessarily passing through the MEDIATION of the intervening micro-economic level at which the individual is but one. It is a defining characteristic of complex environment that THE EXTREMES OF SCALE ARE SENSITIVE TO EACH OTHER, ATTUNED TO EACH OTHER'S MODULATIONS. This is what makes them oscillatory. They can perturb each other. System-wide changes in the weather are sure to resonate at the infra-level, for example in a localized patch of fog. Perturbations channeling back up from the infra-level are apt to amplify into multiplier effects. Think of the way a local fog can amplify into a mega-traffic jam. The individual blindness of the subject of interest is the fog of the economy. When multiplier effects channel upward, the individual is not mediating between the levels in any conventional sense. Self-organizing effects channel through the individual level on their infra-way to larger things. The individual is an amplifier mechanism for multiplier-effects' self-forming. It channels the threshold noise of the system—the functional indistinction between rational calculation and affective response—into an emergent economic ordering that is as ever-changing and continually self-renewing as the winds. In a very real sense, the infra-individual is the crucible of the system. 
When Foucault says that the individual's choice is irreducible, he can only mean that the individual's tendential dividedness in relation to itself is irreducible. The dividual is irreducible. The infra- of the individual is irreducible, in the sense that when system-wide perturbations blow down its hole they can go no further. They have nowhere else to go but to turn around and blow back out. The economy ends in the recesses of the infra-individual, which as Foucault said is not only irreducible but nontransferable. What is nontransferable is inexchangeable. At the infra-individual level, the possibility of exchange comes to an end. If the economy is defined by exchange, then the economy ends in the recesses of the infra-individual. It reaches a limit, as a function of which it is organized—but which lies outside its logic. Foucault speaks of this affective infra-level as the "REGRESSIVE ENDPOINT" of the economy (Foucault 2008, 272).
The infra-individual is the regreessive—recessive or immanent—endpoint of the economy. The dividual is the non-economic wonderland of intense and stormy life on the brink of action that lies at the heart of the economy: its absolute immanent limit. Endpoint—and turnaround. It is only ever possible to approach an absolute limit. The movement toward the endpoint of the economy either disappears into its own infinite regress, or turns itself around into a movement of return.