Returning to Luhmann's analytic of trust, to say that trust and distrust resonate together in a zone of indistinction of immediate oscillatory proximity to each other means that what is felt in the lead-up to an economic act, as it is brinking, is neither one nor the other, neither trust nor distrust. Luhmann says that what is felt is a "readiness" to feel either come next (Luhmann 1979, 79). The individual is in an infra-state of READINESS POTENTIAL. Trust and distrust are together as co-present potentials for what might come next. They are in SUPERPOSITION, in the sense in which the word is used in quantum physics. Though inseparable, their distinction is not erased. It is held in ready reserve. 
The affective feeling of the readiness potential, Luhmann continues, presupposes a "corresponding reserve of energy which is elsewhere not determined" (Luhmann 1979, 80). In other words, the system itself, because it is similarly complex and nonlinear, is in an energized state of readiness potential that is structured in a fashion homologous the subject's affective state. The economy is ready and "responsive," poised like its individual units, for what may come, in a state of brinking agitation. On the infra-level, the brinking is a superposition of trust and distrust in readiness potential. On the macroeconomic level, what is held in readiness potential are the system states of SUCCESS OR FAILURE. At the moment a given choice is made, the success or failure of that action is "undetermined elsewhere." Which way it will go will depend on actions still in tendency, as yet undecided. The economic outcome depends on how these tendencies' expressions will inflect and amplify each other as they turbulently play out across the economic field in a cascade of caroming choices. When this self-organizing process works itself out, the cumulative effects will be "collected" and "summed up" in a system indicator. Until the "mood" of the economy comes to expression in this way, success and failure will remain in a state of superposition—as will trust and distrust at the individual level. The affective states of trust and distrust and the system states of success and failure lie at the two oscillatory poles of the economic process. They are sensitive to each other. They reciprocally determine each other, effectively connecting across their differences of nature and the distance between levels through a complex, nonlinear process of feedback and feedforward. 
Under these conditions the subject of interest is not in a position to know how any given act it takes will turn out. But it cannot not act. You can only defer so long, or so much, and only in certain areas of your activity. Any act you perform triggers the process leading to a resolution of the commotion of affective states held complexly together in tension on the infraindividual readiness potential into a determinable outcome registrable in terms of success or failure. In short, making a choice leads to the collapse of the superposition of affective states. To borrow the vocabulary of quantum physics, it collapses the affective wave-packet. A particle of trust or distrust spins off into the world, where it will PERTURB the infraindividual complexity of other (in)dividuals poising for action. Again like quantum physics, the causality is recursive. The determination of what the act will effectively have been, which state it will be found to have been in, is in suspense until a measurement is made. The measurement makes what comes, what it will have been. Until then, what has occurred is less an act or a choice than an as yet unresolved perturbation. The perturbation must percolate up to the level at which it is collected and bundled into overall economic indicators before it can be determined. Figures are released monthly, and in the case of the most affectively weighted and eagerly awaited, quarterly. In the meantime, particular indicators, such as the stock market or the price of oil, fluctuate continuously like the batting of tiny butterfly wings. Now with the internet, the fluctuations can be followed minute by minute, or even second by second. Without the quarterly indicators to contextualize them, extrapolating a trend from this passing economic wing-batting is highly conjectural, to say the least. Extra-economic events can spook investors and consumers, such as a political crisis in an oil-producing region of the world. These extra-economic perturbations are all the more affecting in anticipation. The uncertainty of these so-called "negative externalities" occurring, and what their exact fall-out will be if they do occur, sends shivers through the system. The shivers almost instantaneously amplify into a low-grade fever that may prove at any moment to have been the onset of a chronic illness. The system is a continual state of pathological excitability, if not because of the publication of new indicators, then in the intervals between them, in the urgency of the feeling of the need to respond to trends BEFORE THEY EMERGE onto a macro-enough level and are tidily summed up in the indicators. 
To act on threats before they emerge was the Bush administration's definition of PREEMPTION (Massumi 2007). The economy is continually agitated by the affectively fraught, felt need to preempt it. As the neoliberal economy takes hold, deferral becomes less and less of an option and preemptive action more and more of an imperative.8 This make economy more affectively ACTIVATING than it is effectively rationalizing. It runs more on perturbations and cascading amplifications than determinate acts of choice.
As this state of affective agitation heightens, what economic actors often end up reacting to most directly are the agitated affective states of other actors. This has given rise to a whole new service industry, that of "internet mood analysis." The internet is trawled by algorithms that search out affectively laden words and terminology to provide a real-time pulse-taking of the mood of the economy. These services go by such names as "AlmagaMood," whose catchy slogan is "Leveraging Big Data to Enhance Investment Foresight."9 It is not just economic sites that are mood-mined. It is the entire internet, including blogs, news sites, and the expanding Twitterverse. The economy as a whole vibrates with the fickleness of what the pundits call "social mood." This internet-based mood registering occurs informally through the social media and all manner of networking. In our networked society, with the global media reach and cross-platform convergence of the internet, any act anywhere resonates, potentially, everywhere, in the economic analogue of Einstein's "spooky" action at a distance. Readiness-potential wave-packets collapse, affectively-systemically, in real-time (or its functional internet equivalent). Individual actions are AFFECTIVELY ENTANGLED AT A DISTANCE. It is only the complex playing-out of the entanglements that decides in the end what will have been a success and what a failure. Complexly correlated to each quantum of success or failure, there will come to expression  determinate affective states of trust or distrust, satisfaction or frustration.
Individual economic actors are infra-connected. They are connected at a distance, in the recesses of their affective rabbit-holes. They communicate at a distance, in immanent affective proximity, churning in and turning around the regressive endpoints of their respective (in)dividualities. THE INFRA-LEVEL RESONATES TRANSINDIVIDUALLY. Individuals spook each other or goad each other on, turning around what is nontransferable in them as individuals: their infra-individual affective commotion. They resonate, at the limit of the economy, in their dividuality. As they reciprocally perturb each other, their readiness-potential wave-packet collapses, correlated transindividually at a distance. Quanta of trust and distrust fly off in all directions. These affective emissions feed up into macro-level expressions of economic success or failure, which no sooner feed back down from the systems macro level into the affective infra-fray. 
Given the cross-sensitivity between scales, at the limit the economic system and the subject of interest are themselves in a functional state of indistinction. The whole system is always going down the rabbit-hole. It is just as continually reemerging, through multiplier effects, channeled through affectively-inflected individual actions, back onto its own level. It does not make the trip to its own regressive endpoint and back unchanged. It becomes en route. It addition to the economic SYSTEM—the precarious emergent orderings of the economy as more or less regulated by macroeconomic market mechanisms, and as more or less analyzable using quantitative indicators—there is the chaotic PROCESS of this back-and-forth between levels from which economic determinations periodically emerge.10 The process as a whole is neither governable nor quantifiable. It is AFFECTIVE-RELATIONAL. Given the paradoxical bond between the affectivity of the relational process and the troubled rationality of its emergent orderings, the system that is the sum of the orderings is at best metastable: precariously stable, tottering between bouts of system equilibrium-loss and processual vertigo.
Each dizzy individual's rabbit-hole of affect is at the immanent limit of the economy. The multitude of these regressive endpoints "communicate," entangled at distance. Their transindividual entanglement composes what Deleuze and Guattari would call the "PLANE OF IMMANENCE" OF THE ECONOMY. The plane of immanence of the economy is the irreducibly affective limit of a complexly relational field. It is the economy at its absolute co-motional limit of tendential stirrings in uncertain readiness potential.
On the plane of immanence, the economic system and the subject of interest are jointly in potential, in a functional state of indistinction at the level at which action is just beginning to stir, in the INCIPIENCE of what is to come. The symmetry between the infra-individual and the economic field as a whole, across their difference in scale, is only apparent. The infra-level is in a very real sense the larger of the two, in that it germinally includes the relation between levels, at the immanent limit. Entangled in the zone of indistinction of readiness potential, the subject and the system come together, to become together. Every little act turning out from the regressive endpoint ollapses the wave packet, destroying the infra-state of functional indistinction. The commotion on the infra-individual level acts out. It is then registered as an indexable occurrence, summing up the individual's irreducible and nontransferable relation to itself in an economically significant act. Through the registering of the action, discernible levels bounce back into place. Scales accordion back out. The system re-self-organizes out of its processual rabbit-holing.
The individual's self-relation, in the "dissociative" dividual dimension, is the crucible of the system's integral self-organizing. Each little act helps inflect the system's global direction, as the economy bootstraps its future on the fly. The system's future is also each individual's future, as it navigates a life journey through economic successes and failures. The system and its denizens become in tandem. Every little act exerts a quantum of creative power, globally and locally, in accordion-playing correlation. Every little choice exerts, to some degree, a power of local-global becoming: an ONTOPOWER. What has been lost to the system and to individuals in terms of knowablility, calculability, and predictability, is regained in resonant ontopower. An ontopower, as a power of becoming, is a creative power. The economic model, Foucault said, is now one of existence itself. Existence itself: where being is becoming.
When what is created is a state of system trust, Luhmann emphasizes that the trust is entirely "unjustified" (Luhmann 1979, 78). It may be rationalizable after the fact, but in its genesis it is rationally unfounded. It did not occur as the separate result of a rational decision judiciously preceding the actions that brought it into being. It came flush with an affective regress, and its turn-about playing-out. At the limit, all economic acts are rationally ungrounded in the endpoint of the economy. This does not mean that they are affectively grounded there. Any state of system-trust that emerges is just as affectively unjustified as it is rationally unjustified. It was not grounded in anything preparatory to action that could be qualified as in any way trustworthy. The transactions that worked out well and led to success proved themselves trustworthy. They became trustworthy, as a function of how they played out. The state of system trust is effectively self-justifying. It "justifies itself," Luhmann writes, in the way that it has "become creative" (78): in the emergently creative way it is generated as a trust-effect of the economy's complex self-organizing. The self-organizing emergence of the trust-effect is retroactively validating. It is affectively validating in the currency of satisfactions gained. 
If enough trust-effects emerge at a sufficient rate of generation, then however unjustified they are, the system has a chance of continuing, in a positive orientation, trending up. Trust in the system has been restored. The affective conditions for continued surplus-value production are in force. Follow-on actions reinforce the trend. Positive feedback between the systemic and infra-individual levels locks in. Positive multiplier effects bubble through the economy. 
When the indicators come out, it is there to see, rationally summed up in a trend. The summing up can then be projected forward into future trends. Based on these statistical projections, a calculus of risks and probabilities can be made. The affective-effect is now as RATIONALIZED as it can get. The rationalizing indicators stoke economic activity, reinforcing the affective conditons for growth. They feed back to the regressive endpoints of the economy composing its plane of immanence, and turning around them, resonate transindividually across the economic field. Feedback loop. Economically, affectivity and rationality circle creatively through each other. The regress to the endpoint of the economic and the upward progress of the economic indicators are a single two-way movement of reciprocal feedback. They are systemically superposed pulses of the capitalist process, together ontopowerful.
Mirrroring the quantum vocabulary of the reduction of the wave packet, Luhmann refers to the production of a state of system trust as a "reduction of complexity." The economy cannot be micro-managed: do not laisser-faire the government. Although the economy cannot be micro-managed, through the feedback process it can be infra-stoked toward the emergence of trust-effects. The instability of the economy can, at least for certain hiatus periods, be affectively primed into metastability: a provisional stability snatched emergently from far-from-equilibrium conditions. Halcyon days. Vacation days from the full destablizing force of complexity. Provisional stability: no one really knows how long the trends will hold. System-trust is a fragile artifact hypersensitive to perturbation.
Luhmann drives the point home: "in the reduction of complexity," resolving into a metastable state, at the immanent limit, at the heart of the process, "there always lies an unstable, incalculable moment" (74). It is around this unstable, incalculable, hypersensitive moment that everything begins to revolve. THE PRINCIPLE OF DECISION AT WORK "CANNOT LIE IN COGNITIVE CAPACITY" actually involving a calculation that guides action before the fact (79). Ultimately, there is no prospectively knowing economic act. The whole process actually works best, Luhmann maintains, if the consciousness of trust and distrust are lost, so that the reduction of the readiness-potential wave-packet "BECOMES AUTONOMOUS" (71)—so that decision becomes autonomous. The affective churning of the system, through which the "rationality" of the system cycles, is best left unbeknownst even to itself.11 
Nonconsciousness becomes the key economic actor.