It appears evident that the individual subject of interest can no longer be considered an autonomous agent of calculated choice. IT IS THE ACT OF CHOICE THAT IS AUTONOMOUS, in the dissociative dimension of the dividual: that of the individual, absorbed in its relation to itself, plied by superpositions of contrasting states in a mutual immanence of functional indistinction. Choice spills from the readiness potential of the subject's affective blind spot, nonconsciously. This nonconscious level is NONPERSONAL. In the intensity of its immanence, the entire system at all its scales resonates in potential, carried to the absolute limit of its regressive endpoint. This infra-level holds all system states in itself, immanently, in potential. It only dissociates itself from other individuals and other levels the better to supercharge itself with what, elsewhere in the system, will play as separate states, following divergent tendencies: distributions of success and failure, trust and distrust, boom and bust, satisfaction and frustration, hope and fear. The nonconscious infra-individual level is, at the limit, the nonpersonal SUPERPOSITION of all levels, in the DISSOCIATIVE dimension of their DISTRIBUTIVE coming together. 
In the strange HYPERDIFFERENTIATED INFRA-ZONE OF INDISTINCTION BETWEEN CONTRASTING STATES, who or what decides? Dividually speaking, who or what chooses? Choice happens, there is no denying it. And as it happens, it is creative: an ontopowerful act. It is tantamount to an existential decision. But who or what decides? The answer is: no one. As in the French personne, which can mean both a someone and no one. Decision happens: affectively-systemically, in the nonconscious processual autonomous zone where mutually exclusive states come together. THE EVENT DECIDES, AS IT HAPPENS.
At the decisive moment, the self is no more in a state of determinate activity than it is in a cognitive state. It is ABSORBED IN A READINESS POTENTIAL that is intensely overdetermined, holding, Luhmann says, "a whole range of possible differences" in "sub-threshold latency" (Luhmann 1979, 73). The whole range of potentials are in it together, in their difference. They are in a state of MUTUAL INCLUSION, on the verge, poised toward the collapse destined to resolve the overdetermination of the and-both into this-not-that determinate effect, registrable in a calculus of risk and probability: from intensity to statistic. Such is the arc of neoliberal becoming.
The nonconscious "sub-threshold latency," churning with the intensity of a mutually inclusive range of potentials, in co-motional intensity, deserves a name of its own: BARE ACTIVITY. 
When we speak of the subject of interest's "self-relation" to bare activity, or the relation of the individual to its infra-individual dimension, "SELF-" has to be understood directionally. It is not a substantive. It connotes return. It is a movement. What moves to the limit of the economic field of life's regressive endpoint has nowhere to go but back out, into becoming. What comes in, becomes out. The plane of immanence of the infra-individual is, at the limit, all enveloping, and all emitting. It is the self-relation, in this double movement, of the field of life to itself. "Self-" is an adverb, not a noun. It qualifies the absorptive in-to-the-immanent-limit and ejective out-into-the-becoming movement of bare activity. It connotes a vector of life eventfully folding back into the autonomous zone of readiness potential out of which its next determinate step will decide to come. Self-relation in this adverbial sense is not reflexive, as in philosophical parlance, nor it is reflective in the psychological sense. Both of these notions recognitivize the event, implying conscious recognition or rational calculation—precisely what Luhmann entrusted not to be the case. 
All of this radically changes what is meant by choice. We do have a word for a choice that makes itself. There is name for a decision that wells up from a state of unknowing, yet still produces knowledge, in effect. For an act that has intense personal resonance, but of which it cannot be said that "I" felt it coming in full cognizance. A doing done more through me, self-relating, than by my I. That eventfully brings a creative moment to life in a way that registers as a change in me that is also world-changing. That word is INTUITION.
The basic paradox of the economic subject of interest is that the "calculus" of interest is unthinkable without reference to subthreshold activity more akin to a nonpersonal flash of intuition than step-by-step conscious deliberation. The "rationality" in the system is necessarily referred to an autonomy of decision bare-actively stirring at the affective heart of self-relation.