In the 1990s, the period in which neoliberal market deregulation and do-not-laisser-faire-the-government took on unstoppable momentum, management philosophy became obsessed with chaos theory. The order of the day was to learn how to surf complexity, extracting surplus-value on the fly, in the most fluid of conditions, in the absence of adequate knowledge for fully considered decision and the certainty it brings. This is the period in which capitalist enterprise became an "art" of decisionmaking. The management bookshelves where full of "creativity," "gut feeling," and "zen." The alchemists of old were fabled to transmute the most inconstant of materials into gold. Given the far-from-equilibrium complexity of the globalizing economy, a new capitalist alchemy was needed to transmute uncertainty into profit. 
Consider this in light of the neoliberal economist's insistence, as analyzed by Foucault, that in the deregulated market the individual subject of interest is no longer defined by its social category or anchoring in a community so much as by its enterprise activity. The neoliberal individual is what Foucault calls the ENTERPRISE-SUBJECT. "If capital is defined as that which makes a future income possible, this income being a wage, then you can see that it is a capital which in practical terms is inseparable from the person" (Foucault 2008, 224). The "worker himself appears as a sort of enterprise": "entrepreneur of himself" (225, 226). The individual becomes an enterprise, as the enterprise at all scales becomes the fundamental unit of society (225). The enterprise-individual invests actively, affectively, in its own life, for the future satisfaction of a higher wage, a good return on monetary investment, and a happy retirement. The denizen of the neoliberal economy is no longer a citizen. It is HUMAN CAPITAL (224-265) or, with the gravitas of Latin, homo oeconomicus. Human capital navigates the same field of complexity and enterprise form of life as its fellow corporate persons. "Corporations are people too!" cried the presidential candidate (and the US Supreme Court agrees).12 As human capital, the individual's self-management—its attempts to manage its self-relation as an investment in its own future—must become a creative art of choice. Correlatively the personal art of choice must become corporate, in keeping with the entanglement between levels.
The management, self-improvement, and psychological literature of the 2000s overflows with theories of intuitive action and advice on how to mobilize or modulate the powers of nonconscious decision, now considered for all humanly capital intents and purposes to be more fundamental economically, if not better in all cases, than ratiocination. Much of the literature celebrates nonconscious decision, cheer-leading for gut feeling. These accounts are bolstered by studies showing, for example, that the more calculation and rational deliberation goes into making a consumer choice such as buying a new car, the less likely the choice will be to correspond to an expert cost-to-benefit analysis, and the less satisfying the experience will be perceived to have been "post-choice"—even independently of the issue of cost-effectiveness. Influential studies have found A NEGATIVE CORRELATION BETWEEN RATIONAL CALCULATION AND CONSUMER SATISFACTION. Nonconscious choice—intuitive "DELIBERATION-WITHOUT-ATTENTION"—produced "better" choices. This effect was slight for "simple" choices, and pronounced for "complex" ones, which in this context is the same as "costly" choices (Dijkserhuis et al. 2006). In other words, the more there is riding on a choice, the less rational calculation can be counted upon to lead to a satisfactory decision, both economically and affectively speaking. In the life of an individual, this might well lead to a viscerally felt disincentive to choose "wisely" by conventional rational standards. Somewhere along the road, it appears that the "good" consumer went out the car window with the "good" (pre-human capital, civil society) citizen.13 
Economic rationalism cannot be disentangled from self-deciding affective factors—all the less where it matters most. Issues of trust aside, the very question of what counts as a "success" or "failure" is subject to affective interference. It cannot be reduced to a purely economic cost-to-benefit analysis. When the affective interference doesn't come from uncertainty in the environment and the individual's relation to others, it still comes—from the individual's decisional relation to itself. The neoliberal wager of making self-interest the fundamental principle of the economy depends on maintaining a strict equation between life-satisfaction and rational calculus of choice. The denizen of the neoliberal world is called upon to equate the experiential value of its life—the SURPLUS-VALUE OF LIFE that makes each pulse of life feel that it was worth living for itself, above and beyond the increasingly impressive achievement of just getting by—with standard quantitative measures of economic success. It is precisely this equation that increasingly breaks down. It becomes clear that there is something in the very nature of decision that forbids it. The very definition of "success" oscillates between affective and economic determinants. This calls the integrity of human capital into question, and it is not just a circumstantial complication. More like a birth defect in its DNA.
It is often recognized in the literature that "gut feeling" tends to flounder when dealing with abstract statistics and probabilities. But we need to take this reservation about gut feeling itself with reservations. For nothing will change the fact that macro-economic indicators are statistical, meaning that they carry a margin of error that makes them inherently uncertain, dealing as statistics do with probabilities. Economic forecasting projects the probabilistic uncertainty forward. This means, once again, that results are undecidable with respect to any particular case. On the level of individual decisions, economic forecasting is little more than a mathematical framework for intuition to work within, garnished with a gloss of scientificity. The calculus of risk is not what it's cracked up to be, as is well attested by the regularity with which crises catch the experts by surprise, even though everyone knows that they periodically recur and are endemic to the capitalist process. The most learned economic number-crunching is affectively surrounded by a penumbra of inexpungeable uncertainty. Individual economic actors ultimately have nowhere else to go but back down the rabbit-hole. No amount of sophisticated modeling will expunge the hard economic fact that under complex conditions of uncertainty rational choice and affect-driven intuition enter a zone of indistinction. To put it another way, "rationality about the unknown requires emotions" (Pixley 2004, 30).14