Returning to the question of the individual actor's relation to itself, there has been a tectonic shift in experimental psychology as it has become increasingly preoccupied over the last ten to fifteen years with poking its empirical stick at the rabbit-hole of affect. Nonconsciousness studies has become a growth field in all areas, but most troubling for many in the key areas of decision and choice. Most recently, rational choice theory has had to contend with the emerging domain of "CHOICE BLINDNESS" theory, CB for short. In the science of choice, a ground-shaking acronymic shift is occurring from REM (rational economic man) to CB. The challenge is not only to the trustability of one's choices under conditions of extreme uncertainty. It reaches into the smallest recesses of the most everyday of situations—and ascends to the supposedly rock-solid heights of the individual's moral compass.
	There are strange doings in the tea party of choice. Researchers in the psychology of consumer choice asked subjects to make a simple choice: between two varieties of tea and jam (Hall et al. 2010). The tastes of the proposed alternatives were as different as can be, for example between cinnamon-apple and bitter grapefruit. Participants were asked which variety they preferred. The researchers then switched the varieties unbeknownst to the tasters. Then they asked them to take what they thought was a second sample of their preferred flavor, and explain why they liked the flavor best. Two thirds of the time, the experimental subjects did not notice the switch. A cinnamon-apple aficionado would happily ingest bitter grapefruit—and convincingly explain their preference for it. Talk about rationalization of choice. 
On the one hand, this "choice blindness" demonstrates the power of perceptual PRIMING. A future sensation can be made to conform to a past sensation to which it is fundamentally different by force of expectation. "Expectation" may simply consist in a lack of cues that anything has changed, so that a new event is nonconsciously equated with the previous one by entropic momentum. This is what Whitehead calls the "conformation of feeling," whereby the present moment dawns as a continuation of the "subjective form" of the immediate past (1967, 183-184).15  The experimental subjects were poised for a taste, and tasted what they were poised for. The experience of the taste that isn't what it is, is a case of how the most basic SENSORY EXPERIENCE can be conditioned to yield not so much a sense-impression as a FABULATION.16 
This points to an experiential plasticity that belies any notion of an underlying principle of PERSONAL PREFERENCE as having the sovereign power to determine action. What are experienced as satisfying qualities of experience are suprisingly open to situational conditioning. How is a jam-eater to act according to their own self-interest, as signed and sealed by the satisfaction of a preference duly attained, if what constitutes satisfaction is fundamentally plastic? What is the difference between decision and non-decision if we can be as convincing, to ourselves as to others, about being satisfied with an outcome we did not choose? It is not only when the nature of the outcome is in suspense, held in readiness potential, that DECISION AND NONDECISION ARE IN A STATE OF SUPERPOSITION. A determinate decision, already verified once by an experienced satisfaction, can be made retroactively to enter into a state of superposition with non-decision by a later experience. 
This is the recursive opposite of the collapse of the wave-packet by a future event. A sequence of action produces the wave-packet retroactively. Here, undecidability is not in the suspense of a readiness potential holding the futurity of the present. Rather, it is presently produced as a recursive AFFECTIVE FACT.17 Affectivity and rationality are entwined in a different way here. The affectability of the outcome as registered in qualitative experiential terms—the openness of an experience's satisfaction quotient to situational conditioning—is directly expressed in a RATIONALIZATION. This is another mode of the functional indistinction between affectivity and rationality. Were the individual really that—an individual rather than an in-the-dividual—this could not occur. But it does, and this gives the dividual itself two oscillating poles, corresponding to two modes of undecidability superposing affectivity and rationality. Both, paradoxically, can be understood as modes of overdetermination: on the one hand, an over-fullness with different states held intensely together in readiness potential; on the other, the altogether too-convincing matter-of-factness of the fabulatory fait accompli.
Even more troublesome for any notion of an underlying set of core preferences are studies demonstrating that under similar circumstances basic MORAL ATTITUDES have the consistency of jam. A similar experiment was performed in which participants were requested to fill out a questionnaire asking them to take a position on a statement of principle such as "to be moral is to follow the rules and regulations of society, rather than weighing the positive or negative consequences of one's actions" (Hall et al. 2012). They were also asked to rate the strength of their conviction on the issues. After filling out a questionnaire, they were asked to justify their position. Their answers had been surreptitiously reversed. A majority of the respondents did not notice the switch, and went on to produce a justification for the diametrically opposed moral principle to the one to which they had so recently adhered. Even those reporting the strongest of convictions on an issue were susceptible to the reversal.