How can people be so fickle? Have they no principles? How quickly they are duped! Think of the political implications! Isn't that how fascism succeeds, by exploiting just such phenomena? Yes, in part, it certainly is. But it is worth pausing a moment before getting too moralistic about the ease with which this choice-jamming occurs, lest we protest too much. Who among us can profess to be immune from such conditioning under all conditions?
Interpreted in light of the first experiment, the plasticity of moral conviction shown in the second experiment appears as a higher-order recapitulation of a PERCEPTUAL DYNAMIC. The phenomenon of choice-blindness points to a tendency toward fabulation built into in perceptual experience. Or more precisely: built into the the temporality of our perceptual experience. The self-evidence of our present perception does not stand the test of time. Our memory plays tricks on us. It is becoming increasingly accepted that a memory is not reproduced. Rather, it is regenerated. A memory is always an event, never a representation. The event of memory varies according to the conditions under which it is produced. Personal MEMORY is an evolving dynamic system that is predicated not on reproduction, but on recreation. In the vocabulary of cognitive science, memory is by nature "reconstructive." This means that the person we are as a function of our memories is self-recreating. If it weren't, personal growth and change would be impossible. 
The fabulatory element of perception as it varies over time is a creative factor in life. In its absence, the individual would be an ambulant repetition-compulsion, shackled to a bedrock of past preferences and principles. What would possess me to forego my tried and true satisfactions? The only way for change to occur would be through the imposition of modified behaviors from without, either in the form of brute conformal force, or through the disciplinary inculcation of norms meant to be interiorized in such as way as to foster conformal behavior even in the absence of force. Either way, individual choice is just as fundamentally called into question as it is by choice-jamming—and the conformal foundations are just as effectively laid for a potential authoritarianism or fascism to develop by a hardening of the boundary between the normal and the abnormal into a dividing wall of exclusion.
In the present context, it is capital to remember that the disciplinary inculcation of normed behavior invariably revolves around delayed gratification—the very notion of which is now struck by neoliberal paradox. This is why Foucault makes a point of saying that the rise of neoliberalism coincides with "A MASSIVE WITHDRAWAL FROM THE NORMATIVE-DISCIPLINARY SYSTEM" (Foucault 2008, 260). Under neoliberalism, the right to choose in accordance with one's self-interest becomes inalienable: "irreducible and nontransferable." Satisfaction is the sign of a self-interest well served, and so becomes the human-capital measure of the success of the economic entrepreneurship driving the economy. Its uncertain deferral has become under neoliberalism an irreducible and nontransferable problem. The neoliberal process assumes the problem. Neoliberalism finds it far more satisfying to live out the paradoxes of its own doctrine of choice—to surf the perturbational limit-zones of indistinction between affectivity and rationality that riddle its relational field—than to return to the normative containment of self-interest as a palliative or regulatory principle. Its passion is for deregulation. It happily chooses "creative destruction" over palliative care. It affirms the perturbations of far-from-equilibrium "oscillatory processes" over the normative stability of regulated change. Zones of indistinction between affectivity and rationality such as deliberation-without-attention and choice-blindness are something it can work with (a gold-mine for new marketing strategies!). Good citizenship is altogether too unenterprising.
It might still be objected that the experimental examples of fabulatory choice-blindness given above seem to have less to to do with self-creation, than with conditioning by others. But what is meant by CONDITIONING here needs to be examined. It is not assimilable to either of the two phenomena most aften associated with the term, classical Pavlovian conditioning and Skinnerian operant conditioning. The first creates reflex associations between stimuli, while the second uses a rigid system of punishment and reward to reinforce or deter target behaviors. Both function in a highly controlled, closed environment, and operate according to a stimulus-response model. The conditioning in the examples just presented, on the other hand were in uncontrolled, open environments. The tea-and-jam survey was conducted from a stall in a supermarket, and in the moral convictions survey passers-by were recruited in a city park. In neither case was a stimulus-response model employed. Rather, participants were brought into an interaction proposed to them in the open environment. The interaction constituted a subset of the activity occurring in the environment. In other words, a situation of encounter was produced within a larger context. The observed effects were the result of how the encounter was set up within these conditions. IT WAS THE SITUATION AND THE ENCOUNTER THAT WERE CONDITIONED, NOT DIRECTLY THE PARTICIPANTS. This qualifies the experimental intervention as ENVIRONMENTAL in the sense discussed earlier: as acting on the rules of the game, rather than directly on the players. The behavior of the participants was MODULATED through the way in which the parameters for the interaction were set, in the chosen contexts. The survey procedure and its structure of judgment are known genres of interaction, and as such can be expected to implant certain PRESUPPOSITIONS in the situation (such as that a survey-taker is unlikely to have studied sleight of hand magic tricks) and activate certain tendencies in the participants (such as a desire to cooperate with a seeker of knowledge and an eagerness to please someone in a relative position of authority). 
This form of conditioning, which modulates behavior by implanting presuppositions and activating tendencies in an open situation of encounter, is called PRIMING. Priming operates less through stimulus-response than through CUES whose force is situational. Priming addresses threshold postures (presuppositions) orienting a participant's entry into the situation, plus the associated tendencies that carry the orientation forward through the encounter. Accordingly, it does not exercise the same kind of power as normative-disciplinary mechanisms (of which both traditional forms of conditioning are highly distilled forms). Precisely because priming is orienting and activating, modulating rather than molding, it cannot guarantee the same level of uniformity of result. The results in the studies are impressive statistically speaking. It is stunning that the choice-blindness effect was observed in a majority to two-thirds of participants. But that still leaves a great deal of room for deviance and variation ("minority" tendencies), and nothing in the way the study was designed can indicate anything about what made the difference. In other words, unlike in normative-disciplinary modes of power, deviance is left to its own devices. The setup was AFFIRMATIVE in the sense that it implanted and activated in order to effect—rather than squelch and punish in order to negate. A significant minority of participants brought counter-tendencies to the encounter which self-affirmed, against the statistically prevailing conditioning. In other words, those who did not display choice-blindness were more SELF-PRIMING than effectively conditioned by the other's setting of the situational parameters. But then, were not the participants whose actions did display choice-blindness also self-affirming their tendencies, in the sense that they acquiesced to their own tendencies leading in that direction, and whatever countervailing tendencies they had were not allowed to determine the end result? And who would not have countervailing tendencies? Who does not harbor some degree of resistance to authority, or some mischievous inclination to throw a wrench into the machinery of knowledge associated with it?
What all of this means is that priming works with the dividual. Its mode of operation presupposes a tendential undertow in the life of the individual that is best approached affirmatively, and whose complexity is such that only a certain ratio of success can be guaranteed. The tendential undertow crests into determinate action, and this process can be modulated by the implantation of presuppositional postures and the activation of associated tendencies. The mechanisms for inflecting outcomes must be affirmative of the dividual, and operate in AN OPEN RELATIONAL FIELD. Relative consistency of results is attained by triggering a subset of activity in the environment. This SPECIAL ACTIVITY is set off against the surrounding activity in the open field, without being divided from it by a strict dividing line. It is focalized, without being segregated. The ongoing activity in the environment is less excluded than it is backgrounded. Priming is an art of situational emphasis. In keeping with its affirmative modus operandi, it functions by incitation or triggering, rather than punishment and reward. It induces PARTICIPATION, rather than imposing a form. It brings something to life in the situation, rather than carving away at life to make it conform to a mold. PRIMING IS AN INDUCTIVE MODE OF POWER. It induces. It allows things to come out, rather than battening them down. It brings to be, rather than making conform. It effects, rather than negate. In a word, priming is a mechanism of ONTOPOWER. 
It is of the utmost significance that priming depends, on the one hand on the individual's susceptibility to its own tendential infra-churnings, and on the other, on its OPENNESS TO THE SITUATION—the individual's bipolar affectability. Priming operationalizes the cross-sensitivity between the INFRA- AND MACRO- POLES of the field of neoliberal life. It attaches its procedures to the relational event-sensitivity of the denizen of the oscillatory neoliberal field of life activity. Priming is the power mechanism most closely allied to the workings of the neoliberal economy, as it lives out the paradoxes of its doctrine of self-interested choice. Its eshewal of hard-edged normative-disciplinary procedures makes it an exemplary mechanism of "soft power." The preemptive mode of power that characterizes the neoliberal field of life, in WAR and POLICING as much as in relation to the market, pivots on priming. Priming is the royal way to the modulation of events before they fully emerge.
In the case of specifically targeted, consciously applied practices of priming, like the experiment surveys just discussed, in order to guarantee statistically significant results, they must be capable of setting off an area of subactivity from the background activity of the constitutively open relational field of neoliberal life. However, there are also SCATTER-TECHNIQUES: techniques for sowing primings to the wind, in the much less guaranteed statistical hope that when they fall it will be upon a ground conducive to a special activity self-organizing itself around their impact crater. The internet and mobile communication devices are the most widely available tools for this. They lend themselves both to deliberation-without-attention and choice-blindness. For deliberation-without-attention can also be induced by priming. The way in which new communicational technologies prime for distributed attention, as users click their way through lengthy sequences of linked choices, sets the conditions for the intuitive decisionmaking that the experiment on consumer choice presented earlier confirmed. Who, while surfing, has not had the sensation of decisions making themselves through them? At the same time, the areas of focus that occasionally stand out in the sea of clicks are prime opportunities of choice-blindness to set in. 
None of this is in any way meant as a lament that the neoliberal environment in general, and the internet in particular, corrupts the sovereign power of individual choice, enslaves desires, and produces soft-powered citizens of regretful malleability. Netizens are not citizens in a degraded public sphere. They are denizens in a complex neoliberal field of life. The point is that mechanisms of priming are distributed everywhere throughout the field. They are networked into it, as well as being punctually set in place locally under certain circumstances by particular procedures of presupposition-planting and tendency-activation.18 Contemporary marketing strategies work at both ends, the distributed and the local. They exploit the ubiquity of communications technology to sow local seeds of priming that are encountered by the units of human capital that we are at every step in our wanderings: a free-range world of cues. 
The very ease with which the cue-sowing can spread and proliferate makes the habitat of homo oeconimicus a highly complex environment of primes. Under neoliberalism, priming goes feral. Priming in the wild saturates the field of life, forming a complex ecology with more institutional varieties involving particular encounters consciously foregrounding specialized activity (as was the case with the surveys). This makes it a necessity for individuals to learn to navigate their way through that environment, and cultivate tendencies for dealing with the churning of tendencies and the way it issues into actions that cumulatively determine the direction of their life. In other words, they are obliged, consciously or not (mostly not), to self-manage their prime encounters: to TEND THEIR TENDINGS. This is done through the patterns of navigation, access, and encounter they weave, and the cumulative effect can be significantly inflected by how their openness to chance encounter and sensitivity to relation is modulated by those patternings. This means that the neoliberal denizen is ultimately as self-priming as it is conditioned by the machinations of others. What direction their life takes is a complex collaboration playing out between their own dividual tendencies, conditionings of their behavior by other individuals and by situational setups, and accidents of chance encounter. CHOICE AND NON-CHOICE ENTER AN ACTIVE ZONE OF INDISTINCTION. 
Everything still turns around dividuating tendencies, because everything that happens recurs to bare activity. Everything feeds back into the mutually inclusive regressive end-point of the economy infra- to the individual, or resonates with it at an entangled distance. Neoliberal life oscillates around the zone of indistinction between affectivity (affectability) and rationality. In that zone, there is nothing so clear as the alternative between choice or non-choice, freedom or constraint. What there are instead are degrees of freedom: AUTONOMIES OF SELF-EFFECTING DECISION whose emergent movements of expression are liable to modulation by priming mechanisms; tendential playings-out that may be induced or inflected, but whose outcome is statistical; situational sensitivities and openness to relation that deliver the dividual to conditioning, but never divest it of the power to surprise.