When the supposed sovereign power of choice is called into the question, the reaction is  often that an indignity has been done to PERSONAL FREEDOM—as if this notion could have survived unscathed the combined onslaughts of psychology, philosophy, and marketing, to name just a few of its historical nemeses. The indignation is based on the assumption that the opposite of rational choice is "IRRATIONALITY," the ultimate enemy of freedom. Irrationality is typically equated with "emotion," making affectivity enemy number two. But as we have seen, THE OPPOSITION BETWEEN THE RATIONAL AND IRRATIONAL IS NO LONGER SUSTAINABLE, if it ever was. Neoliberalism's pivoting around zones of indistinction between rationality and affectivity, its alloying of them as functional equivalents at critical points in its process, requires doing away with the duality. Instead, they must be seen as co-operating modes of activity that separate out under certain circumstances, no sooner to reconverge, feeding back and forward into each other with all the restlessness of bare activity. Only that bipolar oscillatory process as a whole can be seen as determining in the last instance. Except that it's not a last instance. It's a first and last and all-over instance: an irreducibly multiple and relational fielding, at the inmost endpoint of the economy as at its furthest reaches.
Fears of irrationalism construe the inability of an individual to choose wisely as the problem. But WHAT IF THE PROBLEM WERE INSTEAD THE RECEIVED IDEA THAT GROUNDING DECISION IN PERSONAL CHOICE IS FREEING? What if the problem is less the individual's affective inability to control its "impulses," or even the conditioning of its actions by others, than the fact that the freedom of choice is imposed. In both experiments, participants were called upon to judge. The imperative of rational choice calls upon the individual to act as if it were a rational animal all the way down. It attempts to lodge the individual's experience on the level of ratiocination, as if the spectrum of an experience could be reduced to the narrow bandwidth of conscious cognition, and perception were only a transparent window on a representation of the world from which the subject stands back in sovereign judgment. This amounts to an attempt to defuse the infra-individual level of bare-active tendency and any emergent autonomy of decision. It is a denial of nonconscious activity and of the dividuality for which it churns. The dividual infra-complexity of life can be backgrounded, but it cannot be entirely defused or denied. Its tendency is to reassert itself, across its silencing. The dividual rises, sometimes all the more insistently the more it is sidelined. All of this is neglected by the doctrine of rational choice and the simplistic opposition between rationality and affectivity on which it ostensibly relies. All of this is studiously neglected—and then the failure of someone to exercise their rational choice as wisely as a judge is greeted by ejaculations of scandalized surprise.
This is precisely what both experiments did. They generated their surprise results against the backdrop of the implicit assumption of rational choice. In both cases, the experimental subjects were required to justify their choices. What an odd request, to justify a taste. In everyday life, your response to the question "milk or sugar?" is rarely answered with "why?" The imperative to be rational about a matter of taste is likely to have distracted the subjects from their powers of deliberation-without-attention with which matters of taste are habitually approached. Interference was produced between the playing-out of the tendencies with which the most basic sensory experience is laden, and the duty to cogitate as if our perceptions were somehow fundamentally neutral and we stand back from our own tasting to hold it in judgment. As if the value of the tasting, its satisfactoriness, were separable from its occurrence, and the full-spectrum experiential IMMEDIACY OF THAT EVENT. In the consumer choice experiment, participants' powers of deliberation-without-attention were activated by complexity in the problem posed by the high-cost item of the car. The experimental setup invited, by admitting complexity into the situation as an active factor, tripping into action an autonomous decisionmaking power deciding through the experimental subjects. This "surprisingly" demonstrated the limits of consciously deliberative rational choice: it only works well under conditions of simplicity, in this case (as in most) coinciding with A LOWERING OF THE STAKES.
The fact that rational choice works best where it matters least indicates that rationality only effectively separates out under carefully controlled conditions where the ambit of life is reduced. It assumes, and demands, the reduction of vitality, a limiting of life's amplitude. Looked at this way, rationality is a limitative mode of power. REASON IS AN ANTI-ONTOPOWER. The question then arises: given this choice, why choose rational choice? What justifies that? Choosing anti-ontopower over ontopower is clearly not itself a rational choice. It is more a matter of inclination. But then, doesn't that make it a desire? Oops. Enter the zone of indistinction again: rationality is a desiring tendency; as a desiring tendency, it is as much a mode of affectivity as …. affectivity is rational given the intense situation that the life environment as a whole harbors uncertain conditions of complexity. If neoliberalism acted more on its doctrine of self-interested, rational choice than on the paradoxes it generates, it would miss its historic calling as an economic regime of ontopower.
Micro-economic considerations of the actual process of individual choice join macro-economics considerations of complexity and uncertainty, and together they lead to the inescapable conclusion: any politics of individualism unparadoxically predicated on an economy of self-interested personal choice, taking it for granted that units of human capital are rational animals, has missed the boat. That being the case, why not entertain the alternative of a politics of dividualism?
 A POLITICS OF DIVIDUALISM would affirm complexity, and the oscillatory autonomies of decision that come with it. It would find ways of tending tendencies, in order to navigate the zone of indistinction between choice and non-choice in such a way as to effect modulations of becoming that produce self-justifying surplus-values of life: pulses of life experienced as worth the living by virtue of the event they are, immanent to the event, as a function of its immediate experiential quality, without any tribunal of judgment hanging over them, sovereignly purporting to justify them extrinsically. These immanent event-values are not reducible to individual satisfactions, because they emerge from the oscillation between the dividual and the transindividual. Their emergence turns around the dividual, otherwise primed than by the doctrine of rational choice the paradoxes through which it neoliberally expresses itself. 
A politics of dividualism would operate in the unquantifiable currency of INTENSITY, as opposed to satisfaction. It would draw on the positive creative power of fabulation incumbent in perception, tending not only the tendencies dividually churning at the endpoint of the economy, but also to their situational openness and cross-scale sensitivities. This would be a directly qualitative, relational, and situational politics. It would see no contradiction between conditioning by others or by the collective texture of encounters, and the power of self-modulation each individual infra-carries in the playing-out of its dividual tendencies among themselves. It would define decisional autonomy as the co-operation of the orienting influence of situational conditioning and the spontaneity of tendential self-modulation, practicing at their dynamic intersection a POLITICAL ART OF DECISION. It would seriously experiment with the notion that FREEDOM IS IMPERSONAL: that it is at its highest power when decisions move through me, rather than being legislated by my all-too-cognitive, self-deceivingly "rational" I. It would involve care and sensitivity—care for the event of encounter, sensitivity to dividual-transindividual complexity. 
The role of the conscious, cogitating I would be to recognize the rationality of affectivity, and to contribute to its own modulation by forces moving through its micro-level from the infra- to the trans-. It would experience itself more as collaborator than the master of these forces. It would practice strategic self-surrender to them. (For more on this, see Supplement I.)