Before going further in the discussion of what a dividual politics might look like, it may help to summarize some of the implications of neoliberalism's unleashing of complexly self-organizing "oscillatory processes." 
Foucault highlights the key points. The subject of interest, he says, is "DOUBLY INVOLUNTARY" (Foucault 2008, 277). "The individual's enjoyment is linked to a course of the world that outstrips him and eludes him in every respect" (277). Each individual is "dependent on an uncontrollable, unspecified whole of the flow of things and the world" in which "the most distant event taking place on the other side of the world may affect my interest, and there is nothing I can do about it" (277; emphasis added). "Economic man," Foucault coninues, 
is situated in what we would call an indefinite field of immanence which links him, in the form of dependence, to a series of accidents [Involuntary No. 1: perturbations striking the dividual; emergent trust/distrust effects], and, on the other hand, links him, in the form of production, to the advantage of others [Involuntary No. 2: amplification; multiplier effects registering success/failure]  … The convergence of interest thus doubles and covers the indefinite diversity of accidents … so we have a system in which homo oeconomicus owes the positive nature of his calculation precisely to what eludes his calculation (277-78). 
Foucault makes it clear that for him the subject of interest, as human capital, cannot be understood in Marxist-humanist terms as "living labor" (Foucault 2008, 225). If the denizen of the market environment lives in a field of immanence that is constitutively open to "oscillatory processes" (259), then the individual is an immanent oscillatory point in "a MACHINE-FLOW COMPLEX" (225).19 The subject of interest is not humanistic but machinic. In order not to stream with the flow entirely at random, the decisions moving through have to machine cuts into the flow. Etymologically, that is what "decide" means: to cut (Whitehead 1978, 43). In Deleuze and Guattari's vocabulary, the very definition of "machine" is that which cuts a flow, and in doing so releases a quantum of subjective-systemic effect, as described in the above discussion of trust (Deleuze and Guattari 1983, 1-8). The micro-economic level of the individual actor is thus sandwiched between Involuntaries No. 1 and  No. 2, or the infra- and the trans- levels respectively. The trans- level is the macro-systemic level, understood from the angle of its implication in a process that is more inclusive than the system itself, in that the process includes not only system-being but becoming. 
Under conditions of irreducible complexity where a range of potential differences are mutually included in each oscillatory point at every moment, it is precisely the autonomous cut of the EVENT of decision that makes something determinate come to pass, and come to be. The theorist who invented the concept of human capital, T. W. Schultz, proposed "an all-inclusive concept of technology" that would include "the innate abilities of man" (Schultz 1971, 10). Homo oeconomicus, Foucault agrees, is more appropriately classified as a live-wire technology than a biological species. Innately, it is an "ABSTRACT MACHINE" (Deleuze and Guattari 1987). Abstract, because the oscillatory point at which its abilities come through to decisive effect is a superposition of differences too overdetermined to be a specifically this or that as yet, in actually determined fact. The subject of choice is an abstract machine exactly at the point at which, and to the precise extent to which, it is a decider of complexity: it is an orderer out of quasi-chaotic intensity, in convergent co-operation with what eludes its calculations.
This line of thinking is much closer to Deleuze's later account of the mode of postindustrial capitalist power he named "CONTROL" than it is to Foucault's own concepts of BIOPOWER AND BIOPOLITICS of the late 1970s, elaborated in the period directly preceding The Birth of Biopolitics. Deleuze's short essay on "control" can be read as a capsule formulation of the "environmental" mode of power to which Foucault passingly alludes (Deleuze 1995; translation modified in all quotations from this essay).20 
Deleuze says that in control society, the individual is "undulatory, launched in orbit, on a continuous beam" (Deleuze 1995, 180). It "surfs" the flows, rides the waves. When surfing, your technology, the surfboard, has to slice the wave to ride it. It cuts in, to extract a quantum of forward momentum. The subject of interest as human capital does the same thing with economic flows. It cuts into the flow of labor to extract a quantum of forward life-momentum called a wage. It cuts again with its wage, this time into a flow of goods whose purchase extracts a quantum of life-satisfaction rewarding all the pain and sacrifice that has gone into energizing the forward momentum, encouraging one to stay on the wave. Behind closed doors, it may also, depending on how it invests its sensual desires, cut into the flow of sexed bodies in such a way as to extract a quantum of progeny: a reproductive human-capital investment for its own future well-being (intergenerational caregivers for when the old machine starts going to rust).21 The subject of interest as human capital surfs its future in range of ways, cutting into the flow of the days of its life to extract forward momentum from each of its investments in life-activity, endeavoring to sustain the momentum to the end as best it can. At every cut, it slices into its own nature—for it changes as it carries itself forward, becoming as it goes. It DOES NOT DIVIDE WITHOUT CHANGING IN NATURE (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 33, 483). It does not cut without continuously becoming.
"In the society of control, the enterprise has replaced the factory" (Deleuze 1995, 179).  We are no longer in the disciplinary regime. The enclosed spaces producing and enforcing the norms of the well-disciplined life have developed cracks, and leak in all directions. For decades we have been experiencing a "generalized crisis of all of the sites of confinement, the prison, the hospital, the factory, the school, the family" (Deleuze 1995, 179). It is not at all that institutions of the disciplinary regime have disappeared. If anything, they have multiplied, and some, like the prison, have ballooned to unheard-of proportions in countries like the United States. It is less that they have disappeared than that the disciplinary regime they deploy within their enclosures no longer defines the overall field of power. The "massive withdrawal from the normative-disciplinary regime" that Foucault was sensing already in the late 1970s is best conceived as a resituating of disciplinary institutions within a larger ecology of regimes of power whose overall mode of power is of another cast (Massumi 2009). "New forces knocking at the doors" of disciplinary enclosures have integrated them into larger field. The passages through them and relays among them multiply and intensify. They are integrated as hard segments in the general conditions of flow, like boulders in a snow-melt flood. Swirling around them and in the cracks between them pass other movements, following other logics: "ultrarapid open-air forms of control" (Deleuze 1995, 179). It is these open-field effects that characterize the overall field of power. These are "environmental effects": emergent effects snatched on the fly from the complexifying flow. This capturing of effective energy from the flow occurs immanently to the field, in the "autonomy" of the open-air "environmental spaces" (Foucault 2008, 261). In the environment, many a disciplinary enclosure is set down, but none with the power to close itself to the field, so as not to keep on rolling over on itself.  
Deleuze gives another name to the regime of control: the "ENTERPRISE REGIME" OF POWER (Deleuze 1995, 182).22 An enterprise, he says, "is a soul, a gas," a lightness of being (179). A gas: the entreprise-subject's matter is dissipative, rather than frictional. Enterprise-being dissipates in the playing-out of its own gravity-defying lightness. It remains buoyant because rather than projecting an internal force outward, it borrows the energy of its outside and takes it into its own movement. It buoys itself on the quasi-chaotic air currents of the rapidly changing climate of life. Constantly banking, shifting, turning, churning with the flow, the life of the enterprise-subject continually assumes new shapes. It is dissipatively self-structuring, changing in nature as it goes. Its dynamics are nonclassical, far-from-equilibrium. They have no disciplinarily fixed form or "normal" structure. The enterprise-subject is a protean node of decisional autonomy, on the move in environmental spaces that are themselves moving, autonomous, and self-deciding, in the same way the weather is, and every bit as moody.
Disciplinary power molded the resistant body into normative shape. Control society does not mold, it modulates. A MODULATION is "like a self-deforming molding that is continually changing from one moment to the next, or like a seive whose mesh varies from point to point" (Deleuze 1995, 178). It is pulsing, liquid. It is waveform, in continuous transformation. Correlatively, the enterprise-suject is "undulatory" (180). The enterprise-regime's control society is populated at every scale by "the coexisting metastable states of a single modulation" process (179). Globally, it is "a universal deformer" (179), not unlike a synthesizer. The small-scale (in)dividuals populating the enterprise regime are  themselves populated by coexisting metastable states, wavily correlated to the larger modulations of the environment, to which, in their surf-a-thonic shape-shifting, they are moodily isomorphic. 
All of this marks "a technological evolution" accompanying the shift from second-generation to third-generation machines. But "more profoundly [it is] a mutation of capitalism" (180). The enterprise regime is capitalism become "essentially dispersive," waftingly dissociative in its self-relation, continually varying across the full range of its differentially correlated levels, integrating them wholesale into the same universal deformation. It is capitalism most becoming, given itself over gaseous matter and decisional soul, in dividuality and multiplier effect, to the deregulated market (181).
The discussion of decision-without-attention and choice-blindness added an essential dimension to this portrait of the neoliberal field of machinic life: the fact that punctual mechanisms of modulation can intervene at the nodal point where tendential infra-individual complexity of the dividual and the transindividual complexity intersect—where the subject of interest experiences its I, in a conscious registering of the force of the movements passing through it. At this intersection, decisional effect can be strategically leveraged. The cut can be modulated locally, as well as dispersively (as through the internet and mobile communications). 
Once again, the basic mechanism of this modulation is priming, of which there are many forms. All involve conditioning the situation, addressing the putative subject of interest from the angle of its constitutive openness to its own outside: from the angle of its relational sensitivities across scales, at the point where the feedback and feedforward between the dividual and the transindividual cross at what is experienced as the individual level. At that micro-level, priming works positively to induce emergent effects through cueing (or the lack thereof). Situational cues implant presuppositions and activate dividual tendencies. The presuppositional seeding of the field modifies the relative force of the multiple tendencies that are always churning on the infra-level, weighting the decision that is coming in certain directions, toward emergent determinations. The leveraging of effect by priming is inciting and orienting, rather than disciplining and punishing. It is inductive, a "POSITIVE" POWER in the sense in which Foucault uses the term. Conscious cogitation can always enter into the equation at this nodal point, but is never fully determining. It is the oscillatory process as a whole, as nodally modulated, that ultimately decides. All factors, including conscious cogitation, are CO-FACTORS in what always amounts to an exercise of processual autonomy producing complexly correlated subjective and systemic effects. 
In the experiments presented above, choice-blindness was the result of one form of priming. The priming consisted in withholding cues that would have signaled a change in the situation, while implanting presuppositions through the form of encounter of the exercise, which placed participants in a certain posture and activated tendencies favoring the "conformation of feeling" between the two tastings. In this experiment, as in the deliberation-without-attention experiment, participants were postured as subjects of interest called upon to exercise rational choice. The result varied, depending on the complexity of the consumer choice. The least complex choice was generally accomplished with nothing untoward happening to call the cogitational consumer prowess of the subjects into question. Deliberative rational choice, however, collapsed with the complex, higher-stakes choice. Participants who used their gut feelings to decide made better economic decisions by standard measures, and even aside from the question of cost effectiveness obtained greater satisfaction from the choice. These participants were obliged to make their choices while distracted (Dijksterhuis et al. 2006). With deliberative cogitation thus disenabled by the setup of the situation, the field was open for intuition to play a dominant role. Intuition took control of the situation.
 Intuition's taking-control was a coming pivotally into play of an autonomy of decision: a doing done through me. This is not so simple as a PASSIVITY on the part of the subject of interest. The subject's situatedness becomes one of the deciding factors of what transpires. The double involuntary of the feedback and feedforward between the dividual and the transindividual funnels through the situation, and is conditioned by the pressupositions and tendential orientations it highlights. Deleuze's theory of the control society construes the neoliberal field of life as A REGIME OF POWER IN ITS OWN ECONOMIC RIGHT, which operates through modulation. What the tripping into action of intuition demonstrates is THAT CONTROL'S MODULATION CAN ITSELF BE MODULATED. It would be nonsensical to say that control can be controlled. But it is eminently reasonable, intuitively speaking, to say that its movement of becoming can be inflected. The undulatory process of becoming oscillating the relational field can not only be surfed. The neoliberal denizen isn't limited to passively riding the waves, even if it cannot be the sole proprietor and master of its  action. It can make a splash, and experience the "gaseousness" of its "soul" as its own spray. A situational splash of activity can add to and alter the wave pattern: ripples on the surface of universal deformation. Under the far-from-equilibrium conditions of the field of relation, it is always possible that a small splash might amplify into a significant wave. If the neoliberal field of life is a regime of power, a situational splash deforming its surface in ways that goes against neoliberalism's dominant tendencies is a COUNTERPOWER. 
If there is counterpower, there can be a politics of neoliberalism's economization of life, in spite of its field-wide systemic reach and ontopowerful processual mutability. But counterpower cannot be found by returning to the subject of interest, for example in an attempt to rationally convince it to choose resistance in accordance with its "true" interests. Counterpower CANNOT RELY ON A PROGRAMMATIC POLITICS OF COGNITIVE PERSUASION. That strategy actually takes neoliberalism's key doctrine of the subject of interest as rational chooser at its cynical word—ignoring the accompanying paradoxes that make neoliberalism the formidable, undulatory regime of power it is. An effective counterpower politics must engage neoliberalism where it draws its power: in its paradoxes, infra- to its undulations. Counterpower must operate immanent to contemporary capitalism's paradoxical field, in resonance with the economy's inmost end. This means operating, like neoliberalism, as an ontopower. An IMMANENT COUNTER-ONTOPOWER: what other alternative is there, given the globalization of capitalism's neoliberal regime of power? There is no getting outside it. Immanence is not an option: it is a condition of life, and the seat of becoming. The biggest paradox of all is that countering ontopower with ontopower, immanent to its field of relation, requires practicing INTUITION AS A POLITICAL ART.