Intuition is not some mystical inner sense. It does not connote a deeper or more authentic relation to self. And it is not the opposite of rationality. There is a large body of studies on priming in which an image or word flashes by too quickly to be consciously registered, in the half-second or so when a perception is in readiness potential, just stirring in emergence, not yet having taken definitive form. This is the infamous Libet lag, in which experience is absorbed in its own formation, immanent to its own arising, at its inmost end, about to spill forth in a formed perception and a corresponding action: experience at the level of bare activity. It has been shown that at this level the meaning of unregistered words inflect the interpretation of following words that are perceived consciously, demonstrating that highly elaborated cognitive functions like reading can be performed nonconsciously (Massumi 2002, 29-31, 195-197; Sklar et al. 2012). It has also been shown that multi-step mathematical operations can even occur in this way (Sklar et al. 2012). It is not that rational operations are absent from this level. It is that they ARE PERFORMED IN THE FORMING OF PERCEPTION. They are not performed secondary to perception, in a manner reflective upon it. They are performed nonreflectively, absorbed in the immediacy of perception's emergence, in too short a lapse for them to be separate operations. Their operativity, their mode of activity, is enveloped in the movement of perception's arising. They figure in perception's genesis, in-mixed among its formative factors. Coming flush with perception's coming to be, they figure as ontogenetic factors of immediate experience. C.S. Peirce speaks of this in terms of "PERCEPTUAL JUDGMENT" (Peirce 1997, 199-201; Peirce 1998, 155, 191-195, 204-211, 226-242). A perceptual judgment expresses itself in an action that is inflected in such a way that would seem to indicate that a separate act of judgment had preceded and deliberately oriented it, when it has actually occurred in conditions under which NO SEPARATE ACT OF CALCULATION COULD POSSIBLY HAVE BEEN PERFORMED. 
Intuition involves perceptual judgments. It is not, however, reducible to them. It is not just a faster ratiocination. For there are other modes of activity co-enveloped with perceptual judgments at the ontogenetic level of bare activity. Multiple tendencies are activated at the same time, and these cannot be separated from the "calculations" of perceptual judgment. 
Take this example of how a presuppositional field works, loosely based on the work of linguist Oswald Ducrot (Ducrot 1980, 69-101). You enter a field without noticing a rather crucial detail in the situational conditions: there's a bull at the other end. The moment the bull makes it presence felt, before you have had time to think consciously, even to the extent of registering the bull in a fully formed act of recognition, you are BRACED. You are braced into the necessity of living out the situation, for better or for worse. You have no choice about that. You're in it. Your life is entirely absorbed in the immediacy of the brewing event. You're taken into the incipience of an event you have no power to decide not to participate in. But the event has not yet played out, so there may be ways it might be inflected that will make a difference—one as fundamental as the difference between health and injury or even life and death. As you are braced into the event, the field changes. It becomes a FIELD OF POTENTIAL. 
Without having had the time to consciously think it through, potential lines of escape appear to you. You prefiguratively feel yourself avail yourself of them, in BUDS OF ACTIONS poised to play out. Incipient actions come together, in an immediate feeling of the alternatives they offer. You have been braced into the a field of potential composed of a multiplicity of paths of action. Your life is in that multiplicity, splayed between alternatives. Which to choose? No time to ponder. There is only time to act, and perhaps not even that, successfully. No sooner has the field of potential proposed itself than you have already assessed the alternatives. You have registered the distance between you and the bull, between you and the fence following different paths, without consciously puzzling it through. You have comparatively registered the time necessary for each potential escape, without actually having had any time to calculate the comparisons. You have considered which gestures will incite the bull and which will cause it to pause, without actually deliberating on bull behavior. Your body launches into movement, following what you viscerally feel to be the best course, with a rush of feeling you could never separate out from the situational assessments and the calculations that you didn't actually have the time to make—or from the experience of the movement itself. You have performed an EMBODIED THINKING-FEELING IN MOVEMENT, all it one splash. Your dawning realization of the presence of the bull included all of this. You escape. In effect, you have made a life-saving choice—without having performing anything like a separate act of choice. You have acted "rationally," without the ratiocination. You have gained your freedom from the bull, without exercising freedom of choice per se.
This embodied thinking-feeling in movement is intuition. Far from a mystical state one enters at a whim, it is AN INTENSE INVOLVEMENT IN A HIGHLY CONDITIONED, NON-OPTIONAL EVENT. Intuition does not have an object. It has a fielding. It comes with a field potential that is movingly thought-felt before its elements are consciously registered as the objects of a fully formed perception, and is immanent to what occurs as a function of that field. The immanence of this thinking-feeling can be parsed out, retrospectively, into a different aspects or elements. But each of them can only figure because the others are there for it to figure with. They are MUTUALLY INCLUDED in the energizing of the event, as co-operating factors in its playing-out. 
One aspect is the immediate registering of the IMPERATIVES of the situation. These are the nonconscious presuppositions implanted in the field as you brace into it, making the coming event non-optional. This is the aspect of perceptual judgment: CONCLUSIONS ABOUT THE SITUATION THAT PRE-MAKE THEMSELVES AS THE PREMISES OF AN EVENT and as the energizer of the movements composing it. A second aspect is the taking form of a field of potential holding within itself a MULTICIPLICITY OF PATHS OF ACTION, corresponding to different outcomes. These potential alternatives come together in the immediacy of the situation, as a single complex. Their coming-together in all immediacy in-forms the perceptual judgment with an array of hypothetical unfoldings. This aspect of IMMEDIATELY LIVED HYPOTHESIS is what Peirce calls ABDUCTION. Both of these aspects, perceptual judgment and abduction, come with yet another aspect: tendency. The imperatives of the situation registering in perceptual judgment actuate a tendency—to stay alive. The abductive registering of hypothetical unfodings inhabiting the perceptual judgment bifurcate that dominant tendency into an array of subtendencies. These fight it out among themselves, in a time too short for them to actually interact with each other as separable actions/reactions. Rather, they come together in commotion: in immanent co-motion. For each is an incipient action path: a poising for movement; an orientation toward a terminus. That's a fourth aspect: BARE ACTIVITY, as a coming-together in readiness potential of what can actually only terminally unfold as a parting of the ways. Only one path with come about. The co-motion of tendencies works itself out, and one issues forth into action, as of its own accord. This is a fifth aspect: cut. A decision has been moved to make itself; you are moved to embody it. The decision comes through you. Which leads to another, utterly crucial, aspect: all of this is felt to matter. The tendential commotion only works itself out due to the forward pressure exerted by the fact that the coming event is intensely felt to matter. It is the affective intensity of the situation that powers its playing out. In the end, it will have all been about desire, from the beginning. You effectively desired to survive. You wanted it. Or rather: the eventful decision that moved you by moving through you affirmed that tendency in you. "In you": in the dividual sense. 
All of this has occurred not on the individual level, but in-the-dividual. The autonomy of decision that expressed itself in your action-path effectively has a WILL. More precisely, it IS a will: its autonomy is a willing willing itself to occur in the local arena of a situated subfield of the overall field of life, uncertainly oscillating between the poles of the dividual and the transindividual. HERE, AFFECTIVE INVOLVEMENT IS THE FUNCTIONAL EQUIVALENT OF WILL. Affectivity and will are in a zone of indistinction—which includes aspects which would be considered eminently rational were they separable from the zone of indistinction with affectivity, in its functional equivalence with will. But they did not occur separately. The "RATIONAL" ASPECTS of the event – judgment,  hypothesis, comparative evaluation of alternatives, decision—were mutually included in the event along with all they other co-operating factors. In the event, they came as perceptual judgment, abductively thought-felt hypothesis: tendential auto-evaluation. Decision inseparable from the embodied fact of movement. The rational aspects came FUSED INTO the singular complex that was the playing-out of this event. Because of the effective dominance of the aspect of affective involvement, the fusional complex can be qualified overall as affective. But it is in fact more an EVENT COMPLEXION: a complex of co-composing factors, including ones we may categorize as rational.23 You can think of the event's complexion as its unfolding's immanent oscillation between all of its contributory factors, already resolving into an action path in a interval smaller than the smallest perceivable: in the infra-instant of bare activity, turning out; in a regression to the inmost end, turning instantly about.
Every event is complexioned, exhibiting its own signature fusion of affectivity and rationality. Events of decision that we experience as rational choices, seemingly without the motive force of affect to move them, envelop in their complexion all the infra-aspects just described, including the functional equivalence of affective involvement and will. They just ignore or deny them. For as we will see with Hume, there is no purely rational reason to make any particular choice, or even to make a choice at all. REASON HAS NO MOTIVATING FORCE. For one thing, its rational calculations could go on forever. Reason ruminates, in a way that can never fully digest itself. The rumination may came closer and closer to a rationally justifiable conclusion, but left to its own devices it would never actually reach one because there will always remain a logical possibility that some crucial factor had been overlooked or miscalculated. Rationality, practiced as if it effectively had decisional autonomy, is THE FUNCTIONAL EQUIVALENT OF DOUBT. It is haunted by its own version of the "stopping problem" in computer programming. Ultimately, the cut has to happen. And it can only happen if something cuts into the rumination, to cut it off. Calculatio interruptus. This is the feat of affect. It will always occur at a point which, from the point of view of rationality's constitutive indigestion, can only be arbitrary.
Rationality is in no way the opposite of affect or emotion. As Pixley remarked, rationality positively requires emotion. Rational choice only works if it arbitrarily surrenders itself to an autonomy of decision that is one with an affective willing. Ratiocination chews its cud. Affect cuts to the quick. In the final analysis, this makes the outcome of every event an affective fact.