None of this prevents structures of rationality from building, and settling into the world, evolving what become critical functions, as the field of relation wraps itself around them. Structures of rationality make them indispensable, including, of course, for the economy. This process requires the creation of relatively closed milieus capable of filtering the noise of the overall field of relation. Setting up boundary conditions pre-reduces incoming complexity, controlling the destabilizing power of field-perturbations. The result is an eddy of relative stability (a less provisional metastability) in which rational procedures can institutionalize themselves in way that guarantees a regularity of result. Technoscience, of course, is the most outstanding example (and bureaucracy the basest). 
Technoscience's boundary conditions are patrolled by what Bruno Latour "tribunals of reason"—mechanisms of judgment pronouncing certain phenomena and modes of activity as admissible for rational proceduralization and rejecting others as irremediably "irrational" (Latour 1987, 183-184). The result is less an enclosure than a set of transactional parameters regulating both the interactions occurring internal to milieu, and the coupling of the work of the internal milieu to the forces of the outside: a differential network. The control of field perturbations is not only exerted at the boundary. It is repeated inside the network, in the proceduralization of its signature activities.24 Activity is painstakingly formatted for the production of the promised regularity of result. The scientific method's procedures for ensuring "controlled experiments" fulfill this role for technoscience. They amount to disallowing field-interferences by isolating which contributory factors will be allowed to express themselves, so that they can be effectively treated as independent variables, making them more manipulable. Complexity is then built back up toward, from these basic building blocks—as if the world were an edifice rather than an "unspecified whole of flow," and as if the ordering of the world rode a one-way elevator to the upper stories (at the very top of which is perched the penthouse of analytic reason). In a word, a highly strategized, and standardized, practice of event-conditioning is set in place. 
Reason's stopping problem is pragmatically solved on the elevator ride up. Criteria for what constitutes acceptable results draw the procedural finish line, imposing the paradoxical but eminently practical mechanism of a regularized arbitrary cut-off point. In science, the main criterion of acceptability is reproducibility. The reproducibility of results caps the filtering-out of the singularity of unbidden field-effects, making them, against all odds, predictable (more or less, and under certain, relatively-closed field conditions). A second criterion is falsifiability (the bureaucratic counterpart of which is the right to appeal). The scientific method's principle of falsifiability is of particular significance here. It expresses the fact that the entire rational structure is built not on overcoming reason's riddling with doubt, but quite the opposite on its institutionalization. Given reason's constitutional inability to expunge doubt, any structure of rationality that does not build doubt into its edifice will end up crumbling. Doubt will return, in form of cracks fatally undermining the edifice (such is the fate of the totalitarian bureaucratic State). Better to build it in constructively than attempt to disavow it. This strategic openness to doubt constitutes the liberalism of structures of rationality, and is the vector by which they are able to settle into the great open neoliberal world, negotiating a self-protective settlement with its far-from-equilibrium fickleness. That, and the fact, in the case of technoscience, that its regularity of results feeds the capitalist process's voracious appetite for product development and constant turnover. 
For any structure of rationality to produce a regularity of results, and on that basis to settle in and make itself indispensable, it cannot in point of fact completely filter out what it brands as "irrational." For technoscience, the "irrational" boils down to uncontrolled complexity-effects, and the intuitions of perceptual judgment and abduction which alone are capable of fielding them. As science studies has amply shown, the everyday practice of science does not in fact suppress the superposition of modes of activity found at the germinal level of any and all action-perception. Laboratory life is a "mangle of practice"—a site of complex "intertwinements" among a plurality of active factors (Pickering 1995, 23). The "mangle" is irreducibly relational. Active factors mutually "capture" each other, in an emergent "reciprocal tuning" (20). This differential attunement gives the lie to any simple notion of intentionality, understood as a calculated rational choice exercised by an individual decider (17-20). Every rational structure is rationalizing. It is rationalizing in both senses of the word. First, in the sense that the construction of its edifice resides on the shifting ground of the mutual inclusion of modes of activity whose "reciprocal tuning" cannot be considered rational as a whole—but from whose unspecified whole rational results are procedurally extracted. Second, in the sense that it must excuse itself of this germinal sin of relational openness by explaining the mangle away (think of the scandalized reaction on the part of many scientists to science studies's poking its nose into the relational complexity of the everyday workings of the laboratory). Rationalizations aside, the mangle cannot not be negotiated, in order for any enduring settlement to be arrived at. Yet for reasons of institutional pride of place (i.e., for purposes of power-positioning in the larger relational field), the guards of the tribunal of reason are duty-bound to occult it, or at least background it.
The filtering-out of complex relational effects can actually hinder the course of science. Evolutionary biologist Lynn Margulis revolutionized the scientific understanding of the origin of multicellular life by reintegrating relational complexity-effects, and then accomplishing the feat of extracting from them a scientifically admissable notion—that of endosymbiosis (or immanent intertwinement; see Margulis 1999). "She simply refused not to believe her own intuition" (Archibald 2012, R6). The most far-reaching advancements in scientific understanding invariably involve dipping back into the superpositive "chaos" of the affective wave-packet, in order to extract a rationalizable complexity-effect, and to formulate it in such a way that it can gain admission to controlled experimentation as an independent variable lending itself to reproducible results (Deleuze and Guattari 1994, 130-131, 202). This construction of independent variables as building blocks for a larger structure makes science's achievements as much inventions as discoveries. These are not mutually exclusive terms. (Stengers 1997, 146; Stengers 2000, 80-81; Stengers 2011, 306). The creativity proper to science as a structure of rationality is a function of its typically disavowed fishing in the pond of singularity. Nobel-prize winning microbiologist Barbara McClintock was unabashed about this. She described her scientific process, which led to crucial advances in the understanding of genetics, as revolving around her ability to use "empathy" to intuitively "descend" into the complexity of the internal milieu of the cell (Stengers 1997, 115). It is a rarely spoken secret of science that perceptual judgment and abduction are prime factors entering into the mangle of its everyday practice.
One of the most important implications of this for the present essay is that it requires the statement made earlier that "gut feeling" fails when it comes to probabilities to be amended. Philosopher Michael Strevens has written on the central role of "PHYSICAL INTUITIONS" in scientific discovery (Strevens 2013). Probabilities are difficult to handle intuitively in general—which is to say in the abstract. However, in the singularity of embodied situations, as in the bull example, our understanding of the regularities of causal relationships, as ingrained in our body's sensorimotor habits, kicks in. This is accomplished not, as Strevens understands it, by the automatic application of "rules of inference." It is not a separable, cognitive operation, as Strevens himself admits, although without drawing the necessary implications of that insight for his cognitivist vocabulary: you just "see what will happen next," directly, without actually performing calculations (Strevens 2013, 1; emphasis added). This perceptual ability, by the account developed here, arises from the complex relation between the modes of activity constitutive of the life of the body, co-contributing to an outcome through their mutual inclusion in the unfolding event, on the germinal level of bare activity, in the production of an emergent perceptual judgment. It results from the co-operation of the sense modes, at the core of which in many situations is an effective fusion of vision and proprioception, with sound a close second in terms of its superpositional trigger-happiness (Massumi 2002, 58-61, 179-184; Massumi 2011, 95-97, 112, 124-125, 137, 143-144). 
The irreducibility of "physical intuition" to the cognitive category of inference or the application of rules is well understood by anyone (or even anyone's dog) who has played frisbee. The flight of the frisbee is oriented, but subject to modulation on the fly by irreducibly complex playing-out of atmospheric conditions: in a word, the wind. The complexity of the dynamics of frisbee flight are already so complex that a rule-based calculation of the curve of the frisbee's path, even without unexpected affections of the wind, can only be accomplished by calculus (Lynn 1999, 23-25). And yet I, and your average dog, neither of whom has studied calculus, can catch it more often than not. We catch as if we had carried out a complex operation of calculus. And not only that, we instantaneously correct for perturbations occurring en route. This requires an amendment to the earlier statement that "multi-step" arithmetic operations can be performed nonconsciously. The multistep operations are not performed in multiple steps. They are performed in one go, as if they had come consecutively—but, as it happens, fused into a perceptual  judgment. Perceptual judgement is capable of packing the multiple into the dynamic unity of an occurrence. 
We catch the frisbee because of this capacity of perceptual judgment. But not only perceptual judgment. We also rely on perceptual judgment's capacity to extrapolate itself into a perception not just of what is presently occurring, but of what is coming next. We abductively live out the intuitive hypothesis of where the frisbee is wafting, shifting our posture and position on the fly in attunements with the disc's modulations, all as smoothly as the wind. When we catch the frisbee, in spite of the incalculable complexity of its chance-inflected flight path, what we have done is to effectively perceive chance (Massumi 2014). Strevens calls this "tychomancy" (the divining of chance). 
What humans can do that dogs cannot is to extrapolate further, into theoretical constructs capturing the perception of chance for science, and its signature activity of regularizing results. Strevens studies in depth the central role of "physical intuition" in such scientific advances as Maxwell's discovery of the probability distribution of the molecular movement of gases. This discovery laid the foundation for "statistical mechanics, this theoretical scaffold that now supports a great part of all physical inquiry" (Strevens 2013, 7). In other words, the capacity of science to operationalize probabilities is actually an outgrowth of intution's abductive prowess. Can not the same be said of statistics as a whole? However, the more general and abstract the realm of probability, the more extenuated becomes the role of perceptual judgment, to the point that it is all but lost in domains of such large-scale, open-system complexity as the economy.  
This prepares the way for the next section's discussion of Hume's theory of the limits of reason, as well as on the roles it can play in its relation to affectivity. The crucial point here is that STRUCTURES OF RATIONALITY LIVE BY WHAT ESCAPES THEM. They feed on affective-relational intuition. What positive power they possess is extracted from perceptual judgment and abduction. RATIONALITIES ARE APPARATUSES OF CAPTURE OF AFFECTIVITY. As we will see, so are emotions. A rationality is not unlike a collective structure of emotion (just vastly more proceduralized). That is why we become so easily invested in them.
It must be said that little of this applies to economics. The status of economic's rationality as a "science" is widely, and rightly, contested. The true status of the "dismal science" is more a fusion of wishful thinking and market boosterism, than of perceptual judgment and abduction. The tribunal of reason has not been kind to it. The denizen of the neoliberal field is largely left to its own abductive devices.