Now, back to the paddock. Add a frisbee to the bull. We can be the wind. We can throw the bull a curve. I mean, we can throw it a gesture that inflects its course, just as a gust inflects the path of the frisbee. Make the bull gaseous. Wind it onto another path.
When the field of potential arose with the dawning of the event, it did not just include paths of escape. It also included potential gestures that might immediatly modulate the relation between you, the intruding field perturber, and the territorial bull. If performed with just the right accent, a RELATIONAL GESTURE of that kind can alter the complex of action-paths coming into force. A potential line of escape might appear that wouldn't otherwise have been activated. Thus in the heat of the event, a potential is coined. It is INVENTED, not as an independent variable extracted from the event: as an immanent point-modulation of the integral field. A differential path deviation appears out of nowhere. Or rather, it punctually emerges out of the full-spectrum complexity of the event. The change in the field of potential takes effect as a function of how all the elements have happened to come together toward the coming event, but it was triggered by one factor among them. A punctual gesture CATALYZES a modulation of the whole of the field of action-potential. The gesture would come to nothing if it did not factor into its own performance the potential of the event in all of its contributing factors. It works by finessing the way they come together. Even an almost imperceptible tweak, a slight turning of the eyes or subtle change in posture, can pivot the bullish relational field around itself, catalyzing it into a change of state. 
The modulatory gesture is a CATALYTIC EVENT CONVERTER. In its inventiveness, it is a punctual whole-field resynthesizer. This is the positively creative kind of fabulation referred to earlier: the invention of potential flush with the event's dynamic form of expression, movingly one with its unfolding. Finessing the relation: the fabulatory art of the event. 
Now take all of these considerations, subtract the bull, move into a different kind of situation implanted with presuppositions we would tend to call political. What would POLITICAL FABULATION Think-feel like? What gestures might catalyze a whole-field change of state? Answer that question, and you have intuition as a political art of the event. 
One thing is clear: such an art of politics would not be grouded in the personal freedom of choice of the individual subject of interest. Rather, it would pivot around the relational fabulation of affective facts. It would register that FREEDOM IS NOT CHOSEN: IT IS INVENTED. It is invented—in a way that is not easily distinguishable from a discovery.
 This political-intuitive invention is a necessity of life. There is a need to escape the presuppositions of the field of relation into which we are collectively braced. Not by opposing them with an alternate utopian universe where individual choice is finally enabled and allowed free reign (as if such a thing were conceivable, given the web of interdependencies and cross-sensitivities that are part of the warp and woof of life). Not by rationalizing the entire field of life through the good graces of a tribunal of judgment acting from on high (were such a thing possible, even if it were desirable). Rather, by immanently event-converting this rabbit-holed neoliberal world in which we churn. By inventively gesturing neoliberal life toward a whole-field change of state.