Politically, things are never as simple as a bull in a ring. Capitalism's fences don't keep its bullishness in, or the movements it's most afraid of out: unofficial or unregistered flows of goods and people, unregistrable financial flows, and systemically imperceptible forms of capital. Unofficial and unregistered flows include the smuggling of legal and illegal commodities such as drugs, and the press of refugees and undocumented workers. Unregisterable flows include highly abstract forms of financial capital such as derivatives and credit default swaps whose complexity defies calculation,25 and at times even makes tracing ownership impossible (this has been a problem in the wake of the US subprime mortgage crisis). Systemically imperceptible forms of capital include neo-currencies like Bitcoin. Capitalism is afraid of these movements to the extent that it tends to its own metastability, counter to its dominant tendency of irrationally exuberant passion for reckless liquidity. But at the same time, these movements are its indispensable crutches, and its cutting-edge (its profit hedges, and its probe-heads of futurity). Hence: porosity is the order of the day. Through the pores, distant events resonate, and correlate. To paraphrase Foucault, the neoliberal denizen is complexly dependent on an uncontrollable, unspecified whole of the flow of things and the world in which "the most distant event taking place on the other side of the world may affect my interest, and there is nothing I can do about it" (Foucault 2008, 277). 
Given the cross-scale sensitivity of the dividual to the transindividual, and considering the troubled equation between choice and satisfaction, a question arises that is as challenging to neoliberalism's founding figure of the subject of interest as the question as to whether rational choice actually works. What if by events that "affect my interest" we don't just understand events that can go against my interests? WHAT IF EVENTS OCCUR THAT AFFECT MY COMMITMENT TO MY OWN INTEREST? After all, for what good reason should a nonpersonal autonomy of decision that does itself through me do what it does for me? Given the resonant sensitivity of infraindividual oscillatory processing, is there any a  priori reason why decisions pivoting on the individual should cut the flows of the unspecified whole of relational activity for my benefit? Given the transindividual attunement of my dividual dimension to that of others elsewhere in the economic-relational field of life, why should the decisions moving through me not benefit a distant me, even to my me's disadvantage? On the other hand, what prevents decisions that I do manage to make, against the odds, according my own best rational interest, from harming others? In the long run, the theory goes, everybody benefits. But who can deny the collateral damage that occurs along the way, as inequalities grow and whole swathes of the earth's population are consigned to misery? What if the long run gets lost along the route, and dead-ends in yet another crisis? What if the neoliberal promise of prosperity and satisfaction for all runs permanently off-course? From our present perspective, with no end in sight of the last crisis years later, and the threat of irreversible climate change and the attendant global upheavals hanging over our heads, and international efforts to reverse it foundering for fear that it will harm the neoliberal economy (never mind the people it theoretically benefits), the question is more: what are the odds that it won't run permanently off-course?