The two-pronged question of what ensures that choices are made in accordance with the decider's self-interest and, when that is the case, what prevents the choices made here from doing immediate harm elsewhere before multiplier effects have had a chance to bubble through the relational field, in theory to everyone's satisfaction, were of central concern to the early theorists whose thought informed the doctrine of the subject of interest. They sought to respond to them by turning to moral philosophy. Turning instead to politics—as will be suggested here—was excluded on the one hand by their mistrust of the State, and on the other by the fact that non-State-based collectivist politics are pointedly incompatible with the economic individualism they advanced. Foucault cites Adam Smith's elder, David Hume, on these points, rather than Smith's own The Theory of Moral Sentiments. This is presumably because the radicality of Hume's position on the relation between rationality and affectivity is more resonant with the unspecified whole of the flow of things and the world of today's neoliberalism, and involves a significantly different view of how self-interest plays out. Foucault cites a famous passage from Hume's Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals on the decisional impotence of reason:
It appears evident that—the ultimate ends of human actions can never, in any case, be accounted for by reason, but recommend themselves entirely to the sentiments and affections of mankind, without any dependance on the intellectual faculties. Ask a man WHY HE USES EXERCISE; he will answer, BECAUSE HE DESIRES TO KEEP HIS HEALTH. If you then enquire, WHY HE DESIRES HEALTH, he will readily reply, BECAUSE SICKNESS IS PAINFUL. If you push your enquiries farther, and desire a reason WHY HE HATES PAIN, it is impossible he can ever give any. This is an ultimate end, and is never referred to any other object. Perhaps to your second question, WHY HE DESIRES HEALTH, he may also reply, that IT IS NECESSARY FOR THE EXERCISE OF HIS CALLING. If you ask, WHY HE IS ANXIOUS ON THAT HEAD, he will answer, BECAUSE HE DESIRES TO GET MONEY. If you demand WHY? IT IS THE INSTRUMENT OF PLEASURE, says he. And beyond this it is an absurdity to ask for a reason. It is impossible there can be a progress IN INFINITUM; and that one thing can always be a reason why another is desired. Something must be desirable on its own account, and because of its immediate accord or agreement with human sentiment and affection. (Hume 1912, Appendix 1)26	
It is an absurdity, Hume says, to push the questioning further. To do so would tip it into an infinite regress. We'd end up in a black hole from which something monstrous, something more ugly and destabilizing than the merely unreasonable, might pop out. Not just a white rabbit. Beyond unreasonable lies the realm of what does not accord with human affect. Somewhere in the infinite regress that we must avoid there lies the limit of what is AFFECTIVELY UNTHINKABLE: what we as humans think to be unfeelable. Viewed from the lip of the rabbit-hole, this impossible limit of human feeling is abject. But what if we do push past, in spite of that horror we feel as putative subjects of interest, to the "regressive endpoint" of human sentiment? What if we confront the abject question, Why should I prefer my pleasure over pain? So what if I prefer your well-being to mine? If the ultimate ends of human action can never, in any case, be accounted for by reason, then "it is not contrary to reason to chuse my total ruin, to prevent the least uneasiness of an Indian or a person wholly unknown to me" (Hume 1984, 2.3.3, 463).27 And in any case, aren't there even more horrific monstrosities that arise from self-interest? For neither is it "contrary to reason to prefer the destruction of the whole world to the scratching of my finger" (ibid.). What prevents an individual from skirting around the human endpoint and spiralling into the beyond of its own self-interest? On the other hand, what prevents human self-interest itself from being taken to abject and monstrous extremes? 
Hume's explanation of why the endpoint is not regressive, and why the choices made there both serve the individual's interests and rebound for the common good, appeals to "natural sentiment." It is simply a characteristic of human nature to prefer pleasure over pain in all circumstances. One of the things that human nature obtains most pleasure from, Hume continues, is the approbation of others: what pleases others pleases us, and we benefit by the affective synergy because conventions of mutual benefit emerge from it ("general rules" of  conduct, "custom," "habit"). The reason that what pleases others pleases us has nothing to do with reason. It is in no way a calculation. Rather than a calculation, it grows from an "affectation." We are directly, affectively touched by the pleasure and pain of others. We literally feel their pleasure and pain through a direct "communication of sentiments" due to our natural faculty of SYMPATHY, "which makes us partake of the satisfaction of every one" (Hume 1984, 2.3.5, 407). "'Tis sympathy which is properly the cause of the affection" that establishes the communication between myself and others (2.3.5, 408). It works like this: 
When any affection [of another, causing pain or pleasure] is infused by sympathy, it is at first known only by its effects, and by those external signs in the countenance and conversation, which convey an idea of it. This idea is presently converted into an impression, and acquires such a degree of force and vivacity, as to become the very passion itself, and produce an equal emotion, as any original affection. However instantaneous this change of the idea into an impression may be, it proceeds from certain views and reflections, which will not escape the strict scrutiny of a philosopher, though they may the person himself, who makes them. (Hume 1984, 2.1.11, 367-368).
The word "idea" should not mislead. For Hume, an idea is a type of PERCEPTION.28 This account of the transformation effected by sympathy is entirely compatible with the earlier discussion in this essay of perceptual judgment and abduction if the process is understood as a MUTUAL INCLUSION in the same event of differing modes of activity: affection, perception, impression, idea, passion. "Affection" is meant in the simple sense of a being-affected: an undergoing. A perception of another's affection gives rise to an idea of the other's pain or pleasure. The idea strikes me, and the force of the strike converts the idea into an impression. This yields a vivacity of feeling, which generates a passion—which I directly experience as an affection in me, of myself. All these modes must be seen as CO-OCCURRING "INSTANTANEOUSLY," fused into a single event occurring at a nonconscious level of immediate experience. The "communication" of the affective force of the other's experience into an affectation of my experience is no less direct for being multimodal. In the instant, the modes involved are in superposition—as are the other and me, in shared undergoing. The "views" and "reflections" are immanent to the sympathetic perception's arising.29
Hume's concept of passion encapsulates this occurrent coming-together. He defines PASSION as the "double relation of ideas to impressions" (Hume 1984, 2.1.5, 338). A passion is when an affecting impression, and its "instantaneous" reflection in a simultaneously arising idea of the affection, fuse as two aspects of the same perceptual immediacy of experience. The event is then a DOUBLE RELATION BETWEEN THINKING AND FEELING, in the sense that a two-way circuit is established between them. In virtue of this, a passion can give rise to a sympathy, just as sympathy generates a passion (3.3.1., 627). In the back-and-forth, acquired tendencies may be created that work to mutual benefit (the "artificial virtues" of social convention; 3.3.1, 628). But already in the immediacy of the event, the thinking-feeling fusion launches a tendency: a self-driving of oriented activity. TENDENCY is part of the very definition of passion. With a passion, comes a vivacious "FACILITY FOR TRANSITION": activity more easily circulates among the modes of activity that come together in perception, and because of that can more readily transition into an acting out.30 PASSION IS ALREADY AN INCIPIENCE OF ACTION IN READINESS POTENTIAL. This means that perception is not only a thinking-feeling: it is an already-almost-doing thinking-feeling. It is a germinal fusion of action and perception: an INCIPIENT ACTION-PERCEPTION. More radically, not only social conventions but whole NEW PASSIONS may emerge from the "double impulse" provided by the emergence of the first-order passion (2.1.4, 336). Passion upon passion, in inventive proliferation, growing in a communicative contagion of actionable affectability. Hume's favorite word for what the force of passion does is "ACTUATE" (for example, 2.2.2, 393). Actuate: activate. The theory of perception, in its relation to understanding, is an activist philosophy. It would not be stretching it to equate the superpositional process of undergoing just described with "BARE ACTIVITY" coming to determinate expression. The bare activity that is the germ of experience's taking form is INSEPARABLE FROM SYMPATHY. Bare activity can be summed up as the TENDENCY FOR TENDENCIES to form and settle into the world, AS A FUNCTION OF SYMPATHY.
There is NO MEDIATION by the faculty of reason involved in the thinking-feeling process of sympathy. No subject of interest steps in. There is just the inventive complexity of the perceptual event, passing through me on the way to further transitions. The workings of reason come after the perception's genesis and the generative event, in the reflections of the philosopher in a moment of pause, or perhaps in the reflections of the person who was affected in all immediacy and now thinks back on the encounter at a remove. In the latter case, reason can inflect the process only if the thinking included in the feeling was for some reason off the mark. After all, "external signs" can be ambiguous. One way the process goes off the mark is when the perceived effect in the other's countenance or conversation that triggers the sympathetic process is erroneously attributed to the wrong object. For example, you might hurt someone by something you say, but you misconstrue which comment it was that caused the affection. The other way an error occurs is when the tendency that arises with the newly minted passion falls into the wrong groove, so that it is insufficient as a means of effecting the empassioned transition (Hume 1984, 2.3.3, 463). These errors are "false judgments"—FALSE PERCEPTUAL JUDGMENTS.31 Reason's only role is a reflective corrective to false perceptual judgments.
Hume has no patience for the standard rhetoric of the "COMBAT OF PASSION AND REASON" (Hume 1984, 3.1.3, 460-462). How could they enter into hand-to-hand combat when they really don't even touch? Reason holds itself at a reflective remove from the inventive life-process that comes flush with perception. Because of this, reason has no motive force. That is why it can't dictate that I should not prefer disaster for an other to a scratch on my little finger, or that I should not prefer my own pain to pleasure, potentially acting to the benefit of far-away other against my own self-interests. "REASON ALONE CAN NEVER PRODUCE ANY ACTION, OR GIVE RISE TO VOLITIOn" (3.1.3, 460). There is simply no common ground between rationality and affectivity that can become a battle ground. "A PASSION IS AN ORIGINAL EXISTENCE, or, if you will, modification of existence, and contains not any representative quality, which renders it a copy of any other existence or modification" (ibid.). A thinking that contains a representative quality is what is referred to these days as a COGNITION, and as such belongs to reason. Passion, containing not any representative quality, is noncognitive. As a modification of existence, it is a becoming. Put the two together, and you get a NONCOGNITIVE BECOMING. As the processual hub around which tendencies grow, and grow into conventions of behavior that orient life activity, passion in of itself is TANTAMOUNT TO A VOLITION: its noncognitive becoming is an ONTOPOWER. 
This is where the issue of choice comes back in. Although a passion is a volition, it IS NOT A CHOICE: it is at the hub of a process that runs it course automatically, in the instant, without any intervention by a deciding subject. The process is self-deciding. Choice comes out between passions. It comes from passions entering into combat with other passions, tendencies with opposing or elsewise-oriented tendencies, in bare activity. "Nothing can oppose or retard the impulse of passion, but a contrary passion" (ibid.). In bare activity, passions duke it out among themselves, flush with perception, imbued with nonconscious thought, already potentially readying an issue in action. This affective thinking-feeling is not the opposite of rationality. It is not reducible to the simple negation of rationality. It may be NONRATIONAL, BUT IT IS NOT IRRATIONAL. The passion with which it comes is an "original existence." It is an original, tendentially self-affirming existence, and as such must be described in positive terms as its own ontopowerful process. 
Does that sound like a moral philosophy? If you add to this account the idea of priming and other forms of event-conditioning, and the wholesale modulation of the relational field effected by event-conditioning—including the potential for new, emergent action-paths to be invented—then what you have is much more like a politics: a FUNDAMENTALLY AFFECTIVE POLITICS. In the affective politics implied, rational choice has no foundational role or reality. Fundamentally, it's not about choice—it's about sympathy. And sympathy is in the immediate communication of affections between individuals: it is TRANSINDIVIDUAl.32 
This means that the individualism of self-interest also has no foundational role, despite Hume's own attempt to save it. At any rate, Hume doesn't seem convinced by his own argument that preferring pleasure over pain is an incontrovertible "natural sentiment" and that the approbation of others is naturally a pleasure, and that together they block any ungrounding approach to the regressive limit of the dividual, thus exorcising the possibility that out of the complex and uncertain oscillatory process of which the dividual is the inmost endpoint a decision might make itself that by the conventions of society would fall to an unacceptable extreme: either the callous extreme of preferring the destruction of the whole world to a slight discomfort of a little digit, or the opposite extreme of choosing my own total ruin to the slightest discomfort of a person on the other side of world who is totally unknown to me. Untempered by self-interest, sympathy would seem to move us naturally in the latter direction. In its own processual terms, there is no reason why a contagion of feeling of the kind Hume theorizes would not issue in actions expressing a preference for someone else's well-being over my own. With reason unable to give a motivation for why this should not be the case, the field would seem to be affectively weighted at least as much in this direction as toward callous disregard. 
Only systematic event-conditionings PRIMING FOR SELF-INTEREST could disarm this tendency, and they have their work cut out for them if they are to overcome in all cases the possibility of an "unnatural" outcome flowing from the formative role of sympathy in the very genesis of perception. It is no wonder neoliberalism keeps itself so busy touting the virtues of self-interest and implanting the presupposition that its denizens are subjects of rational choice, making all manner of maneuvers aimed at instilling transitions that make self-interested rational choice the dominant tendency. It is also no wonder—given reason's Humean impotence, on top of the necessary blindness of the subject of interest that Foucault sees as freeing the invisible hand of the market—that this tendency of neoliberalism to foster tendencies of self-interested rational chioce leads to the paradoxes of decision described earlier, as exemplified in deliberation-without-attention and choice-blindness. Oddly, given his skepticism toward religion, Hume appeals to the trump card of the "Supreme Will" to save some semblance of a solid foundation for self-interested choice, in what can only be read as an implicit admission that the argument from natural sentiment needs other-worldly reinforcement and is in the end no less convincing than its rivals: on the one hand, the argument that there is a combat of affectivity and reason and that reason wins; and on the other the specter of sympathy taken to unthinkable extremes.33 Invisible hands, it seems, have a finger in many liberal pies, of both economic and philosophic confection. 
What do invisible hands do when their finger gets scratched?