A key part of Hume's theory of the moderating, regulatory effect of natural sentiment is the argument by similarity: "we find, that where, beside the general resemblance of our natures, there is any peculiar similarity in our manners, or character, or country, or language, it facilitates the sympathy" (Hume 1984, 2.1.11, 368). Where there is difference, the familiarity bred by "contiguity" creates the conditions for sympathy (2.1.11, 369). According to these arguments, there is a hierarchy of sympathy based on established patterns of belonging, according to general kind (for example, the human solidarity of membership in the same species and class solidarities) or owing to the particularities of frequentation (family, community, nation): RESEMBLANCE/FAMILIARITY/CONTIGUITY-BASED SOLIDARITIES.
Although it may be generally the case that sympathy is preferentially structured in this way, there are enough exceptions to the general rule to raise once again the question of what might happen if the constant conditionings aimed at implanting this hierarchy were not in force. Under neoliberalism's "massive withdrawal" from the normative-disciplinary regime of power, hierarchizing conditionings of sympathy lose their anchoring in easily controllable enclosures. They are forced to operate in an open, oscillatory environmental field. This biases them toward the extremes. In order to retain resemblance/familiarity/contiguity-based criteria for sympathetic belonging, affective primings are necessary to suppress or demonize the perception of difference. Given the proliferative nature of capitalism, and its ontopowerful tendency to augment differencings (the better to invent niche markets), virulent primings tending toward FASCIST contagion are required to shore up the sense of identity and reimpose boundaries. This can be seen in the rise of the far right in the United States, beginning with the formal setting in place of the financial mechanisms of the neoliberal economy starting in the late 1970s, and now affecting all areas of Europe, in particular since the destruction of what remained of the social democratic model by the crash of 2007-2008 and the subsequent policies of austerity brutally imposing an abrupt transition to a fully fledged neoliberal model. On the other hand, and at the same time, unleashed from the normative-disciplinary hegemony over the field of relation characterizing the previous phase of capitalism, sympathetic tendencies uninclined toward resemblance/familiarity/contiguity-based hierarchies readily multiply, and go feral, against the grain of "natural sentiment."
These feral "PARTICIPATIONS AGAINST NATURE" take a number of expressions.34 Against general resemblance of kind, the early 2000s have been marked by a sea-change in perceptions of species-difference. There has been a passionate upsurge of concern, academic and activist, in nonhuman forms of life, inventive of new cross-species tendencies in the playing out of sympathy. Parallel to this, the geography of the field of relation has been fundamentally changed by the internet and social media, redistributing perceptions of contiguity and familiarity. Viral contagions rage on a daily basis, irrespective of distance or prior familiarity. In the network socieity, what is farthest away can hit closest to home. Conversely, one's immediate surroundings may seem oddly far away, affectively distanced by the intensities of experience communicated by free-roaming viralities.35 Examples of feral sympathy become a major social-media trope: images of "random acts of kindness," tales of "paying it forward," unexpected odd-couple bonds between individuals who have nothing in common or between animals of different species, cultural oddities that strike with sympathy-clinching affection in ways those experiencing it could never justify by any prevailing standards of tastes, to name just a few. On a more mainstream note, the media rhetoric of the everyday "hero" who actively accepts the possibility of his or her own total ruin to the misfortune of another, has become an inescapable daily presence, particularly since 9/11.
On the callous extreme of lack of sympathy for others, we see, in addition to what a normative point of view would consider "anti-social" actions by individuals, widespread collective attitudes that are actually based on what is purported to be "rational" economic reasoning. These are perhaps best understood less as a lack of sympathy per se, than A SYMPATHY FOR THE MARKET, of the kind corporate persons and enterprise-subjects are primed to feel—and to feel to be accordance with their own best interests as well as ultimately, in the long run of accumulating multiplier effects, to be in the common good. Most notable among these market-sympathies, or passions for the capitalist process itself—capital desires—are callousness toward the disadvantaged, expressed in policies to roll back social benefits for the love of the bottom line, and attitudes toward climate change and other ecological devastations. Do not the unapologetically obstructionist climate politics of some of the most economically developed countries, in particular Australia, Canada, and the United States, amount in the long run to preferring the destruction of the whole world to an economic scratch on the finger of the market's invisible hand?
Given this situation, the argument that natural sentiment grounds the passions in self-interest—but also trustably regulates sympathy according to principles of resemblance in kind, familiarity, and contiguity—seems disingenuous. Trustably? No reason to get started on that again. If this principle of "human nature" was ever in force, its force is noticeably enfeebled in our day.