The relative flattening out of the bell curve of sympathy, as the extremes of the spectrum gain currency, should not be understood to imply that more people become personally invested in taking pleasure in the pain of others, at the callous extreme, or at the other extreme, in experiencing pain in deference to other's pleasure. It is NOT A QUESTION OF SADISM OR OF MASOCHISM. And it should be clear by now that affectivity has to do not with personal, subjective investments, but rather with autonomies of decision that can be only said to reside in the relational field in its unspecified, oscillatory whole—or to be more precise, in the movements of dividual-transindividual cross-scale sensitivity traversing the relational field, communicating affections in a way that decidedly cuts the flows at each pass, effecting singular events of perceptual judgment that issue into action. THE PROBLEM IS THE VERY NOTION THAT THE HEDONIC FACTORS OF PAIN AND PLEASURE ULTIMATELY GROUND CHOICE, AND ORIENT SYMPATHY'S PRODUCTION OF PASSION-fueled, self-willing tendency. 
The alternative to grounding decision and volition in the hedonic distinction between pain and  pleasure is to introduce the category of INTENSITY into the affective picture. Intensity is nonhedonic. It is not a subjective state expressing an affective investment of the person. It is a DIMENSION OF EVENTS into which the life of the body is braced. The intensity of an event is the bracingness of its qualitative tenor: what Hume calls its "vivacity" or "LIVELINESS." Hume always speaks of the vivacity of a phenomenon in terms of degrees. Intensity is not binary, like pain/pleasure, but lies on a continuum. Hume never speaks of vivacity as a STATE, always as a FORCE. The vivacity or intensity of an impression or an idea makes it more affecting, and thus more forcefully effective as an generator of passion and tendency. The concept of intensity is a strange one, by the usual hedonic standards. It is the notion of a QUALITATIVE FORCE immanent to events that gives them their power to effect transitions: their decisional power to make a cut that continues the flow of events. INTENSITY IS WHAT AFFECTIVE VOLITION FEELS LIKE. Its motive force is clearly not beholden to self-interest. It is in the service of the liveliness it is. It's all about VITALITY, AS A SELF-AFFIRMING VALUE, expressed as a power to effect transitions in the world. An event of uncommon intensity produces A SURPLUS-VALUE OF LIFE: a boost of vitality that is communicated by sympathy, and tendentially spreads, affirming itself in and as a power of contagion. INTENSITY LIES AT THE BASIS OF ONTOPOWER. It is the qualitative force boosting of becoming. For as we saw earlier, new passions, corresponding to emergent tendencies, invent themselves through the affective process of sympathy's playing out.
Whitehead adds an essential element: CONTRAST (Whitehead 1967, 252-264; Whitehead 1978, 162-163, 279-280). What determines the intensity of an experience, he says, are the contrasts it holds together. In other words, AN INTENSITY IS A MEASURE OF THE MUTUAL INCLUSION OF WHAT UNDER OTHER CIRCUMSTANCES TENDS TO SEPARATE OUT. Certain events suspend the contrariety of what is normally present as mutually exclusive terms. The more such contrasts an experience is capable of holding in itself, the more intense it is. Because the "terms" are actually tendencies. Objects, perceptual forms and qualities of all kinds, operate as TRIGGERS for the coming activity, already incipiently stirring in the dawning of an experience. They figure as SIGNS OF AN EMERGENT PASSION potentially coming to determine a tendency (recall that Hume's account of the genesis of passion in sympathy began with the strike of a sign). The terms that are held together in their contrast, but minus their contrariety, stand in the incipient experience for co-possible tendencies that elsewhere, in other experiences, will refuse to cohabit. They are present as COMPOSSIBILITIES: co-present alternatives as to which transitions might potentially follow. Or, to return to the bull example, as alternative action-paths, experienced all at once and in their difference from each other, in the form of immediate perceptual judgments and the abductions into which they no sooner extrapolate (lived hypotheses directly experienced in the genesis of the perception). It is the packing into the event of a greater array of compossible tendential unfoldings that intensifies it. Simply put, the more contrasts are held in readiness potential, the more full of life the experience is—the more bracingly bare-active it is, the more lively, the more vital. The more surplus-value of life it produces. The more ample its affective wave-packet. 
It was asserted earlier that a politics of affect would be a political art. Whitehead defines the achievement of intensity as definitive of the AESTHETIC DIMENSION of existence (Whitehead 1978, 109, 197, 213, 244, 279-280). Art would then be the practice OF PACKING AN EXPERIENCE WITH CONTRASTS, AND HOLDING THEM IN SUSPENSE IN A COMPOSITION OF SIGNS: contriving for the affective wave-packet not to collapse, for an intensive interval. This is achieved through the way in which the event of perception is conditioned: which presuppositions are implanted and how; which tendencies are activated, in what rhythm, and in what abductive tension; and what new passions and emergent tendencies potentially arise from that tension. It is in this sense that an artwork is creative: in the manner in which it potentially invents new passions and tendencies. It is not the artist who is creative. CREATIVITY is not a subjective state. It is a manner of activity, passing through the life of the artist. It always expresses as an inventive event. 
An affective art of politics would similarly pack experience with contrasts, at the strike of a sign, or a composition of signs. It would also hold the actuated tendencies in suspense, trying not to allow the affective wave-packet to collapse in a way that would determine quanta of satisfaction and success to sort out—at least not right away, or in any way assimilable to a calculus of interests. Once again, interest is not fundamentally ingredient to the event's occurrence. Sympathy is its mode. However, as new passions and tendencies emerge and settle into the world, interests will inevitably grow up around the settlements. Far from interest being primary, it is INTENSITIES OF EXPERIENCE THAT GIVE RISE TO INTERESTS. Interests are the settled creatures of intensity. They are invented by affective means foreign to their own dynamic of avoiding pain and seeking pleasure. Hume, and the neoliberals, got it backwards. Satisfaction does not come at the end, arrived at by following one's own interest. It comes en route, in the SELF-AFFIRMING VALUE OF THE PROCESS ITSELF. It comes in the immediate experience of a qualitative "more" to life, a surplus-value of life that is lived intensely, such that its very living is its own reward. To call this satisfaction is to belittle it, so different it is from hedonic satisfaction, and so much more vital. Spinoza's term is best: JOY. Joy is much more than a pleasure. It registers the invention of new passions, tendencies, and action-paths that expand life's powers, flush with perception. It registers becoming. It is an immediate thinking-feeling of powers of existence, in passionate intensification and tendential increase.
Joy, understood in this sense, does not map onto pleasure.36 It can carry a mix of pleasure and pain, or any number of contrastive EMOTIONS. It doesn't map onto any particular emotion either, or onto any particular contrastive emotional pairing. It is the liveliness factor of all hedonic and emotional categories. It is not an emotion: it is VITALITY AFFECT (Stern 1985, 53-61; Massumi 2011, 43-44, 111, 152-153; Massumi 2014). There is an infinite variety of vitality affects. Every event of perception has its own vitality affect, with its own qualitative tenor and tendential force—its own degree of intensity. In this sense, every experience is its own joy. An emotion is a subjective state. A joy is a dividual-transindividual expression of life's potential inventiveness.
Whitehead goes so far as to say that the increase in intensity is the ULTIMATE AIM OF LIFE—even of the "universe" (Whitehead 1967, 201; Whitehead 1978, 107).
Hume also understands his account of the affective genesis of experience in aesthetic terms. But in keeping with his time, he considered the fundamental category of the aesthetic to be TASTE, not intensity. He understood the object of taste to be BEAUTY (a "gilding or staining of the object"), not the thinking-feeling of powers of existence under increase. In keeping with his doctrine of the nonrelation between affectivity and reason, he does not assimilate taste to judgment. He maintains an affective account of it. But for him that means consigning it, and with it the aesthetic as a whole, to the hedonic binary of pleasure and pain. He does, however, recognize taste as a motive force. Suggestively, he also recognizes it as "a productive faculty" that "raises in a manner a new creation." But the manner of creation it raises is a "sentiment" attached to the attainment of a new pleasure, or a familiar pleasure of rare "gilding." This obviates any politics of the aesthetic, returning his thinking to the realm of moral philosophy, albeit of a thoroughly constructivist slant stripped of any foundational "ought" and excluding any appeal to a priori categories of judgment. (All quotations in this paragraph are form Hume 1912, Appendix 1).
If joy must be distinguished from pleasure and satisfaction, and divorced from taste, it must also be saved from a final indignity: being mistaken for INSTANT GRATIFICATION. It is true that instant gratification is an activity that is entered into for its own sake, and is self-affirming. But it is consuming, not creative. But it is really is just one half of neoliberalism's paradoxes of self-interested satisfaction. Instant gratification (get it while you can, before the next crisis wipes you out) and the deferral of satisfaction (the "rational" calculus that it would be wiser in the long run to defer gratification) are two sides of the same neoliberal coin. They are an INFERNAL ALTERNATIVE: the "choice" between them binds you to the presupposition that you are effectively a subject of interest, whichever way you choose to go.37 It binds you to the hedonic dynamic of life, in its neoliberal expression, and as such is catastrophic from the point of view of the intensification of existence. Satisfaction, associated with consumption, is DEINTENSIFYING. Instead of holding the contrariety of contrasts in tension, it suspends the tension—thus losing the contrasts. It relieves tension, stilling tendency in a moment of entropic equilibrium that seems to offer succor in the oscillating seas of the stormy economic field of relation. Consumptive satisfaction is the ANTI-AESTHETIC OF CAPITALISM.
This is not to say that there is no possibility of joy arising in capitalism. There are intensities aplenty, and joys may even be found in consumption. The intensities potentially register counter-tendencies, and the joys of consumption are had by making a creative art of it, against the equilibrium-seeking impulse toward entropic satisfaction, instant or deferred. This can be seen, for example, in fan cultures, DIY cultures, hacking cultures, and culture-jamming activities, all of which turn consumption back around into productive activity. In all of these cases, a dividual-transindividual dynamic is affirmed and inflected, even if it is not explicitly thought of in those terms. The "subject" of the practices is collective, and the collective tendency is to invent new tendencies, in viral contagion. The object of consumption is reactivated, and reactuates, as a sign of passion (a sign that strikes in such a way as to give rise to a passion, and potentially to the invention of new passions to follow). Sympathy reasserts its rights as a force of existence. There are stirrings of joy. It is in virtue of this collective reaffirmation of sympathy-based passion as a "productive faculty" and a joy, that arts of consumption register counter-tendencies. This does not constitute a politics per se, but neither is it business as usual.