To move sympathy further toward the political, it is sufficient to reconsider the role of the other in Hume's account of the genesis of sympathy. His account begins when a sign of an affection undergone by the other strikes me, triggering a passional process in which the affection communicates itself to me. In order to contain the movement of sympathy within the ambit of "natural sentiment," Hume is obliged to interpret the sign as a sign of the other's pain or pleasure. This needs to revised, in light of the all of the ways just enumerated in which the affective process triggered by the sign overspills the hedonic dimension of experience. 
Conveyed with the affection, mutually included in its vivacity, are incipient actions and buds of tendency. THE SIGN OF THE OTHER ACTUATES THESE. Your passion is the movement of their actuation. You are braced into a complexity of unresolved contrasts and alternate outcomes, all intensely thought-felt flush with the perception. The vitality affect of the event is the registering of this complexity, as exceeding any particular pole of contrast, contrastive pair, or determinate outcome. The multiplicity of modes of activity, further multiplied by the co-presenting of alternate runnings of each, produces an untenable tension. The tension is the churning of the dividual, in bare activity. Only an issue in action will resolve the tension. Only one action can effectively unfold. This NEED FOR A REDUCTION OF THE AFFECTIVE WAVE-PACKET itself produces an additional tension: between the bracingness of the instant and the future resolution, in the course of which the experience will be determined to distance itself from the germinal vivacity of its overfullness with contrast, incipiency, and tendency, as well as the vaguely but vitally sensed possibility of the invention of new passions and their attendant tendencies.
The sign of the other that triggers this affective process and its passional playing-out has a double sense, corresponding to the two tensions, that of the arising of a field of overfull potential, and between that arising and its resolving playing-out. What the SIGN OF THE OTHER stands for points in two directions. On the one hand, it points to the ACTUATED LANDSCAPE OF POTENTIAL just described. This is not the landscape that the other inhabits. It is NOT ANOTHER'S HOME TERRITORY. Rather, IT IS THE LANDSCAPE THAT INHABITS THE OTHER: the array of co-present passions and tendential action-perceptions actuated by the sign the other emits. The landscape of potential does not inhabit the other so much as it comes between the other and me, actuated in the communication of affectability that moves instantaneoulsy from the other to me, and in the so moving directly moves me. IT INHABITS THIS MOVING RELATION. The moving-relation is in the hyphen of the dividual-transindividual: my life is braced into bare activity by the transindividual movement of transition. The strike in the infra- of the dividual and the trans-affection from the other are one: two instantaneous poles of same relational movement. 
However, since it is the other that emitted the sign that triggers the movement, our engrained associative HABITS OF PERCEPTION are apt to assign THE OTHER AS CAUSE OF THE EVENT. The landscape of potential is then attributed to the other, and the tendency is then to construe it as belonging to the other. The affective communication now no longer appears as an immediate relation bringing about a transition between events: the other's affection and its eventual issuing forth in my actions as a function of sympathy. It is experienced instead as the transmission to me of a content of the other's life. As if the other and me were separate interiorities—rather than cross-sensitive, trans-correlated (in)dividualities. The landscape of potential is then experienced as the sign of a POSSIBLE WORLD that is subjective in nature.38 
It is upon this basis that LOVE and HATE arise. Spinoza defines love as a "joy with the accompanying idea of an external cause," and hate as "a sadness with the accompanying idea of an external cause" (with sadness defined as a diminution of the powers of existence enveloped in intensity, and interpreted in the present essay as lying on the same continuum as joy rather than being its opposite; Spinoza 1985, 3, P13, schol., 502). It is also upon this basis that the linking of sympathy to Hume's good friends, resemblance, familiarity, and contiguity, occurs. The interiorization of the affective event coincides with the transition from immediately-thinkingly-feelingly-lived to reflectively-thought. A POTENTIAL is bracingly experienced. It is nonconscious. A POSSIBILITY, for its part, can be consciously cogitated upon. Love and hate give rise to endless ruminations: scenarios of conquest and revenge, the strategems by which they might be obtained. Obtained—as satisfactions. It is also here that the hedonic duality between pleasure and pain kicks in in a way that begins to structure one's life in what almost inevitably plays out along conventional lines—too often embarrassingly clichéd lines—due to the relentless priming dedicated toward just this end. Love and hate are emotions corresponding to the interiorization of the affective event as a hedonic subjective content amenable to conventional formatting. As with all emotions, this containment of affective intensity is never complete. All emotions carry a remainder of intensity, to which they owe their vivacity—as well as their etymology ("e-mote": to move out of oneself, as in the phrase "to be beside oneself"). There is a quantum of joy even in hatred. Intensity cuts across the hedonic duality, on a transversal path of its own.
Thus in one direction, the sense of the sign of the other is a landscape of potential that tends to be translated into a possible world. Enveloped in the strike of the sign, mutually included with the potential it actuates, there is a world of subjective emotion in the key of possibility. 
This points to the second sense of the other as sign of passion: possibility points to the FUTURE. The strike of the sign affectively braces me for an unfolding in the course of which passions will be produced, tendencies will duke it out, and actions will issue. All of this occurs in the instant, nonconsciously, in perceptual judgment and abduction, in infra-trans cross-sensitivity, through what Simondon calls an unmediated "communication of subsconsciouses" (Simondon 2005, 249). The trans- communication CORRELATES my affective dividuality—my "preindividuality" in Simondon's vocabulary—with that of another. Our preindividualities differentially participate in the same event, as immediately linked polarities defining its strike. Enveloped in this transindividual correlation between preindividualities is the translation of the potential actuated in the event into the key of cogitative possibility. The bifurcation from affection to emotion, from joy to love, from in-between intensity to subjective content, and from perceptual judgment and abduction to reflective rumination, is included in the affective wave-packet of the event's readiness potential, in tendential bud. The future may unfold according to either path—or even following both, on parallel tracks. Simondon speaks of the "affectivo-emotive" in order to encompass this coming-together of this bifurcation (Simondon 2005, 247). From this perspective, on either or both tracks, THE SIGN OF THE OTHER IS A SIGN OF MY RELATION TO MY OWN FUTURE. This is why the sense of the other as sign of passion is double: in the event, it is both the immediate moving-relation, irreducibly infra-trans-, and my own affectivo-emotive self-relation, across the change the event will bring to my life. My infra-trans relation to the other IS my relation to myself, under two different but co-occurring aspects, in the two contrasting keys of life's polyphony: potentiation and possibilization.39 
When we speak of a politics of affect, or a politics of dividualism against neoliberal individualism, we are speaking of holding the event to the key of potential, to the extent possible. We are talking about making an abductive practice of perceptual judgment, bringing into relief the other as a sign of passion in ways that tend less easily to bifurcate toward conventionalized emotions and the general rules of social behavior they facilitate based on resemblance/familiarity/contiguity, as linked to the hedonic opposition between pleasure and pain. We are talking about intensity of moving-relation. We are talking about joy. We are talking about PASSION AS AN ONTOPOWER PRIMED FOR OPEN-ROAD BECOMING, veering off the beaten paths of conventional settlement. We are talking about the feral potential of sympathy, unleashed from the domination of self-interest and the exclusive aim of personal satisfaction. We are talking about life, enlivened, with its full charge of infra-trans cross-sensitivities. We are talking about the aim of life toward intensity, toward the production of qualitative surplus-values of experience. We are talking about RELATIONS TO THE OTHER THAT ARE IMMEDIATELY SELF-RELATIONS TO THE FUTURE. We are talking about reclaiming the future for collective potential.
 Not forgetting that CAPITAL itself is defined in relation to the future. Capital is not a quantifiable sum of money. It is a potential quantitative increase in the future of a sum of money invested now. This potential increase is surplus-value. Surplus-value is "realized" in profit taken (rather than being rolled forward back into investment-capital). Profit, of course, is countable. Although surplus-value is not in itself quantitative, it is QUANTIFIABLE IN THE FORM OF PROFIT. Capitalism is the CAPTURE OF THE FUTURE for the production of quantifiable surplus-value. CAPITALISM IS THE PROCESS OF CONVERTING QUALITATIVE SURPLUS-VALUE OF LIFE INTO QUANTIFIABLE SURPLUS-VALUE. 
To the extent that our lives come to be dedicated to this conversion, our futures are captured by the capitalist process. We are consigned to live out our lives as human-capital, subjects of interest dedicated to the aim of obtaining pleasure rather than suffering pain—and suffering as a result of that the paradoxes of self-interest. As subject to those paradoxes, we are infernally burned by the alternative between instant gratification and the deferral of satisfaction. Given all the uncertainty associated with those paradoxes, we are beholden to exercise our gut-feeling to make our choices—but to do it in a way that brings the same result as a rational calculation would, knowing full that this is impossible for us, creatures that we are of the double involuntary of the neoliberal field of relation, becoming in a rhythm with its oscillatory process, affectively exposed to the ebb and flow of the unspecified whole of the world. This depresses us. To the point that some have made DEPRESSION the emblem of the times (Berardi 2011). If we weren't in depression already, the thought of depression as the emblem of the times is in itself enough to depress anyone.40 Apologists for the human-capitalization of life respond with …
"HAPPINESS ECONOMICS." Happiness economics deals with the paradox of self-interest produced by the tension between the "rational" imperative to defer satisfaction to maximize one's human capital in the long run, and the moment-to-moment need to act now, in fear and uncertainty, in the thick of the neoliberal field of relation's far-from-equilibrium conditions. The paradox is that the tension between the two can easily lead a unit of human-capital to throw up its all-too-visible hands and say, why not get what I can while I can? Instant gratification is better than working my life away for a pension that will be "austerity-ed" away before I can ever collect it. You can always bank on bankruptcy—and start the process all over again. In our capitalist day and age, isn't the subject of interest really just a polite term for the subject of debt in any case? (Lazzarato 2012). Or, on a less callous note: I'm going to concentrate on my quality of life, put time into my family and kids, my art or sports or pastimes, the kinds of things that I experience as having a value in themselves, and take the risk of being caught short later—which given the fact that the subject of interest is really the subject of debt is just as likely to happen anyway if I "rationally" calculate. 
Happiness economics responds to this by purporting to have discovered "the happiness equation" (Powdthavee 2010, 11). The happiness equation is a method for putting a MONETARY PRICE ON THE INTANGIBLES of experience from which we derive satisfaction. These are, in the main, modes of relation that we consider to the quality of our lives to hinge on, and to define "who we are" more than what we do for a living. Friendship and comaraderie, love and life-partnering, and personal health are at the top of the list. If economics can manage to quantify these relational values, it will have achieved the conversion of the citizen into an effectively satisfaction-fueled subject of interest, and of qualitative surplus-value of life into quantitative surplus-value. It will have completed the MONETIZATION OF EXISTENCE that is the project of human-capital. Affectivity will finally be subsumed to rational calculation. Unfortunately for these latter-day prophets of neoliberalism, outside economics and aside from its popularizing cheer-leaders, as few believe in this "equation" as believe in the well-groundedness of rational-choice theory. 
The work of happiness economics is made even more difficult by the paradoxical fact that studies consistently find that levels of self-reported happiness and life-satisfaction rise as incomes and standards of living rise above poverty level—but then level off and begin to decline beyond a fairly comfortable middle-class socio-economic status (see for example Potro and Rustichini 2013). This strange anomaly of the "happiness index" even has a name: the "Easterlin Paradox." It's not just that money doesn't necessarily make you happy—it's statistically guaranteed to make you less happy the more you have of it. The rebound effect on the dividual level is the associated fact that nonconscious PRIMING WITH IMAGES OF MONEY makes the following experience less satisfying (Quiodback et al. 2010). This is even the case for chocolate, the fabled pick-me-up of today's depressed units of human capital. The soothing pleasure of consuming chocolate and the taste of money don't mix. 
Why not let the qualitative surplus-values of life that are lived for their own worth stay what they essentially are, as corroborated by just about anyone's gut feeling: unquantifiable? WHAT ABOUT AN INTENSITY POLITICS, AS AGAINST A HAPPINESS ECONOMICS? Going that non-neoliberal route would involve tweaking and amplifying tendencies that intuitively understand the other as a sign of passion, and the relationship to the other that is immediately a self-relation, as an actuation of collective potential. It would involve as well inventing new tendencies that enable infra-trans cross-sensitivities to settle into frequentable action-paths in the world, as alternatives to the infernal alternatives of capitalism. Such a politics would be less grounded in the MACRO-POLITICS of PARTY PROGRAMS or IDEOLOGY-BASED CRITIQUE and resistance, than it would pivot on affirmative affective practices of event-conditioning and priming. It would not be conducted in the name of any individual's self-interest, or even in the name of any resemblance/familiarity/contiguity-based group interest. It would reside in the intensive-collective affections of the unspecifiable whole of the relational field, oscillating itself toward a possible world of its own abductive invention, beyond neoliberal capitalism. Its power would be of affective contagion, for an ever-always qualitatively-more to life. 
Any human act accomplished at the level of transindividuality is endowed with an indefinite power of propagation that confers upon it a virtual immortality. (Simondon 2005, 249)