There are inklings of this potential for non-self-interested becomings in one of the most abject figures of contemporary capitalist culture: the "ordinary hero." The ordinary hero is thoroughly recuperated into rhetorics priming for resemblance/familiarity/contiguity-based politics. Ordinary heros instill pride in country and community. Anyone might turn out to be one. They might look just like me. There might even be one living next door. We are all bathed in their second-hand glow. Their self-sacrifice elevates us. They achieve immortality. (The proof of it is that the pious celebrations of their martyrdom never end.) We feel our own lives have been given meaning. They will have been worth living thanks to our belonging to their kind. The ordinary kind: just human. Or … is it, the American kind? But what about the "first-responder" kind? Or the neighborhood-of-origin kind? All of the above—in a most satisfying confusion of structural levels.
Of course, the immortality is purely SYMBOLIC, not "virtual" (in a contagion of readiness potential rolling across the transition between events). Furthermore, the satisfaction to be had in the structural confusion of macro-levels energizes a politics that easily settles into a defense of group self-interests perceived to be under attack. The production of the ordinary hero is a working part of the politics of "terror." It has its own powers of affective propagation, revolving around the operative logic of preemption (Massumi 2007). Ordinary heros help implant in the field of relation an AFFECTIVE MEDIA-BORNE POLITICS that mass-converts intensity into emotion, in the politically useful register of fear, in oscillatory opposition to the contrasting emotion. That contrasting emotion is not trust, but the politically as well as economically useful emotion of chest-beating "confidence" (Massumi 2005). Who can forget the first responses of the time's most prominent public figures to the 9/11 attacks: 1) keep shopping, for love of country!41 and, 2) hate those swarthy foreign terrorists and hang on! because we're going on the preemptive attack. Don't lose confidence! This affective politics reinforces warlike tendencies toward neoconservatism, in tight processual embrace with the neoliberal economy (Massumi 2009a).
And yet … the ordinary hero did "choose" to feel something that it is ordinarily unthinkable. And she did it in the heat of the event, launched instantaneously into action by the sign of the life-threateing affection of the other. Heroic individuals are invariably portrayed as not consciously choosing. They rush headlong into the towering inferno, without pausing to ruminate for even a millisecond. They abduct themselves into risking their own life, braced into the intensity of an event that is far bigger than their small lives. The transition from the (in this case indexical) sign of the other's predicament to a decisive issue in action is accomplished in no time at all. The "heroic" cut into the flow of the event happens so quickly that the strike of the sign, its registering in an impression arousing an affection producing a passion actuating a tendency issuing into action—all of that barely registers. Or rather, only bare-actively registers, in the dividual recesses of a soon-to-be heroic life (in other words, a self-less death). A nonconscious decision has been made. The hero has been infra-trans-ed into action. THE CHOICE WAS MADE THROUGH HIM—BY THE RELATIONAL EVENT. Those who survive almost invariably describe it that way: I just ran into the wreckage, without even thinking about whether to do it or not, I just had an image of others on the brink of disaster, their lives about to be incinerated and the heart ripped out of their loved ones. A world of possibility about to go up in smoke. So much potential, about to be buried in rubble. What choice did I have? In other words: "I" DIDN'T DO IT—SYMPATHY DID IT. I was but its volitional vehicle, fueled by the other as sign of passion. 
The ordinary hero is MOVED BY THE RELATION OF SYMPATHY AS A MOTIVE FORCE, IN THE FUNCTIONAL EQUIVALENT OF VOLITION. They didn't do it—the event did it, in the playing out of the double sympathetic tension of the relation-to-the-other-that-IS-a-self-relation that is one with its occurrence. It just happened. 
Yes, these ordinary heroes are just like you or me. There is nothing extraordinary in their makeup that separated them out from us by nature before the event. Their distinction is to have acted on gut feeling without a moment's hesitation in the heat of the event. IT IS THE EVENT THAT MADE THEM EXTRAORDINARY. They can only claim to have been bathed in the glow of its exceptional nature. They are haloed by the glow only because they surrendered themselves to the event. They opened their lives to it, such that what was to become of them, who they would be in the end, COINCIDED WITH ITS "INTERESTS": its freedom to play itself out as it will. 
If these are indeed just circumstantially extraordinary ordinary people, then all of us have it potentially within us to do this. We must all be susceptible to the tendency, to one degree or another. We all have it in us—in the inmost recesses of our dividuality—to surrender ourselves to the event. TO "CHOOSE," through an autonomy of decision deciding through us, for our life's potential to COINCIDE WITH THE FREEDOM OF AN EVENT, AGAINST our own considered choice, beyond our own best interests. How intense is that?
Of course, we all also have in us the contrasting tendency to self-preservation and the self-interested pursuit of happiness, guaranteed for US citizens by the Constitution. But there is ANOTHER CONSTITUTION: THAT OF BARE ACTIVITY. That constitution is not just institutionally powerful. It is ontopowerful. At the "endpoint" of the subject of interest, the two tendencies, to coincide with the freedom of an event and the tendency to assert our personal freedom as subjects of interest duke it out, mutually included in the superpositions of bare activity. When the event-conditions are such that the tendency to self-interest comes out of the churning of bare activity on top, the conventional social settlements clinch back into place, and the action-paths followed pass for the results of a "rational calculation." In affective fact, as we have seen over and over again in this exploration of the paradoxes of self-interest, IT IS STILL THE EVENT THAT HAS DECIDED, through an autonomy of decision, issuing out of the double involuntary of the oscillatory complexity of the field of relation. Selfishness is an achievement of the relational field's neoliberal tendency. When that tendency comes out on top, we live up to the systemically desired vocation as human-capital that has been presuppositionally implanted in the economy, and is continually reprimed. When the contrary tendency comes out on top, we have participated in an alter-economic ontopower—even if our action is in the next instant recuperated by the neoconservative politics in processual embrace with the capitalist economy. For a brief moment that passed faster than the smallest consciously thinkable interval, we lived a counter-powerful affection. 
This occurred in a cross-sensitivity braced into action by an EVENT WHOSE SCALE DWARFS THE HUMAN SCALE. Far from engaging our "natural sentiment," the event's deciding was nothing less than monstrous. Even if the setting is not as physically out-of-scale as the World Trade Towers, it was still excessive. The sense of it is still out of sync with the human scale of the everyday decisions passing through our ordinary lives: it something that it is HUMANLY UNTHINKABLE TO FEEL, AND HUMANLY UNFEELABLE TO THINK. You could say that it's sublime, if such is your philosophical inclination. You could also say it's wondrous—in a paradoxical, down-the-rabbit-hole kind of way. Or maybe, just quirky.
In any case, what has occurred has issued from the "regressive endpoint" of the human: that "INTERIOR ALTERITY" at our sympathetic endpoint (Lapoujade 2010, 68). It has come of something nonpersonal stirring at the inmost endpoint of the relational field, at the limit of the human capital we all are now—that is, that we all are to the extent that we are human and in the thrall of the paradox of our "natural sentiments." To the extent that a freedom-of-the-event has lived itself out through us, we have lived a counter-power: a participation-against-nature. The tendency in that direction is as much a part of our nature as any other. It is beyond the pale of "our" nature. It is an against-the-grain expression of the inhuman part in us, issuing into action. It is, simply, "NATURE," with no possessive—self-possessing. It is nature defined as THE BARE-ACTIVE RESERVE OF ACTIONABLE POTENTIAL IN THE WORLD (Massumi 2009a), issuing in excessive becomings expressing an autonomy of decision. At bottom, nature is world's tendency to grow feral again. Pat patriotic rhetoric aside, the ordinary hero, seen from the angle of the dividual in its transindividual cross-sensitivity, IS AN EXPRESSION OF THE INHUMAN AND THE NONPERSONAL IN US. If "heroism" is a virtue, it is a NONPERSONAL AND NONHUMAN VIRTUE OF THE RELATIONAL EVENT. However recuperated, it is a sign of the potential for feral becomings, done through me, beyond the human-capital pale, churning out from the inmost end of the relational field of life. 
It's a bit kitschy to call a self-deciding nonhuman virtue of the relational event "heroism," especially when the same tendency can take any number of minor expressions, so as to pass almost unnoticed. For example, anywhere a gratuitous act of generosity or kindness or feral connection comes about, without the vehicle it moves through even pausing to think about it, a mini-event has sympathetically decided itself, cutting modestly into the flow of everyday life. "Ordinary" events can express a freedom-of-the-event just as much as "ordinary hero" events, but moving through with little or no fanfare. Pat humanistic rhetoric aside, these events are also just as much expressions of the inhuman in us. 
Freedom-of-the-event comes in all sizes and in various degrees of vivacity, or affective force. The variety is as infinite as that of vitality affect. However small the splash, however fleeting or fading, its vital intensity still surpasses that of the grandest of self-interested gestures.  As well, by the way, as that of even the most celebrated of acts of ALTRUISM performed with the aim, conscious or not, of obtaining the satisfaction of other's approbation, or of achieving symbolic immortality. Such gestures observe the resemblance/familiarity/contiguity-based conventions constitutive of the human settlement. They are, in effect, if not in actual point of fact, "rationally calculated." 
This, notably, excludes charity and the PHILANTHROPIC spirit from the politics of sympathy implied by this analysis. Sorry, Bill Gates: you're within the human pale after all.