Of course, it is in the exceptional event that the affective politics of intensive contagion is most palpable and forceful. It is of the nature of sympathy as a qualitative force that it can act INSTANTANEOUSLY AT A DISTANCE, on the wings of a sign. It doesn't have to exert a measurable force, and it isn't inclined toward the rational calculation of starting at point A and mosying to point B in a linear and orderly fashion. The strike of the sign of passion triggers, in all immediacy, at whatever distance: it is the FLASHPOINT of an event. 
"The most distant event taking place on the other side of the world may affect my interest, and there is nothing I can do about it." More radically, the slightest sign of passion flashing at a distance may affect my vital intensity—and there is much that the self-deciding event of sympathy can do with that. 
The distance doesn't have to be geographical. It could be between conventional categories of belonging—age, class, gender, religion, species—separated from each other by a social gulf sinking gaps of remoteness into proximity. The communication of affection at the heart of the sympathetic event is by transindividual nature NONLOCAL. It can reverberate across the relational field, faster than the speed of conscious calculation. It is as double-involuntarily contagious as a sneeze or a maniacal laugh. It can skip causal intermediaries, and pop up somewhere else, in no time flat. Or, its taking-effect can be SUSPENDED, because SIGNS CAN BE ARCHIVED. This suspension is not the same as a deferral. The event is suspended in the sign's readiness potential—the semiotic equivalent of bare activity. This is not a mediation. It is an archiving of affective immediacy. The time of the affective event's taking-effect is no more linear in time than its moving-relation is in space. It is only answerable to its own rhythm, which emerges as a whole-field effect from the way in which the relational field has been primed and conditioned. The affective event is not site-specific. It is WHOLE-FIELD-RELATION-SPECIFIC. It is not pinnable to a particular place—yet it effectively TAKES PLACE. Neither is it pinpointable in clocktime—even though the emission of its triggering sign is as punctual as the chiming of a clock. Its punctuality it that of a flashpoint: an explosion, an instantaneous amplification, sending out wave upon wave of impulse, such that it MAKES AND TAKES ITS OWN TIME. The sympathetic event occurs in different dimension to metric time and space: the pulsed time of the bare-activity, churning and turning around with nonlinear readiness potential. 
The CONDITIONING of the event, although a requisite of its occurrence, is not its CAUSE. Events of complexity are not answerable to causal determinism. The complexity of the oscillatory field opens the field for chance emergences. But that is not all. The undecidability that comes of these emergent complexity-effects is compounded by the SPONTANEITY OF INTUITION: abductive thinking-feeling, making the cut, flush with the event.42 
As we saw earlier, abduction can lead to the invention of new action-paths. That inventivity is already at the affective core of perception's genesis, which as we saw with Hume involves the production of passions and tendencies, and from these still more of both, in a cascade of decisional cut and ongoing transition. Emergence is one thing. Invention is another. They piggy-back on each other. Together, they are doubly ontopowerful. There is no cut-and-dried distinction between them. There is, however, a difference of degree. INVENTION carries a stronger charge of passional volition. It has a momentum fueled and refueled by pulses of passion carrying the event through transitions across which its qualitative force affectively changes and qualitatively evolves. Invention is the event deciding itself to become. IT IS WHAT THE EVENT WANTS, WHEN IT WILLS ITSELF CHANGE.
Flash, 2011: a self-immolation in Tunisia ignites passionate protest. The affection skips, across a geographical distance and a suspensive interval of bare activity, to Egypt. Passionate protest reignites in Tahrir Square. From there, it reverberates across the globe. A permutation on the event pops up again half-way across the globe, riding on the wings of media signs. Occupy Wall Street takes place, making an anomalous political time for itself: a slow time of otherwise co-inhabiting public space; slow-mo explosion of potential. Next North American stop: Montreal. It is without any advance warning, a student movement amplifies into the largest student strike in Canadian history, and not stopping there, bleeds into a repotentialization of previously flagging, if not yet moribund, community-based social movements (Barney et al. 2012). There WAS NO SPECIFIC CAUSAL CONNECTION from one event in the series to the next, but there was a nonlocal linkage that was immediately, unmistakeably, thought-felt. The events were AFFECTIVELY ENTANGLED AT A DISTANCE, one becoming the trigger-sign for the next, all resonating together in their BELONGING, DIFFERENTLY in each case, to the SAME SERIES. 
The event contagion did not produce a spreading conformation. Quite the contrary, what propagated were DIFFERENCINGs. Each event along the way, in addition to being stoked by the affective strike of the signs of the passion of the other trans-ing itself in at a distance, was also infra-stoked by an event occurring immanently to a more restrained field of relation: INFRA-TRANS CO-CONDITIONING. For each new occurrence in the series, there were what Simondon calls "GERMINAL FORMS." These are affections occurring immanent to a field of relation that already has a certain consistency, including a texture of conventional belongings (for example, along national, religious, and party lines). All fields of relation textured by such resemblance/familiarity/contiguity-based constituencies are riddled with internal structural tensions. The germinal affection is small event that CATAPULTS THE RELATIONAL FIELD INTO A FAR-FROM-EQUILIBRIUM OSCILLATION, exacerbating the tensions and necessitating a resolution that does conform to any of the already arrived-at solutions on offer from a particular constituencies sharing the field. The germinal affection-event catapults the relational field toward a CRITICAL POINT, where it must either fragment into a turf-fight between constituencies, or pass, as an unspecified whole of flow, over a threshold to a new consistency. The passing of the threshold occurs in DIVIDUAL-TRANSINDIVIDUAL FEEDFORWARD AND FEEDBACK. No cause can be isolated. The germinal affection-event is catalytic (given the conditions), not causally determining. The effect it produces cannot be predicted: it must be invented. 
The rallying cry is always "FREEDOM." Freedom, as we saw earlier, is not owned as right, it is not consumed as a good, it is not chosen as an option: it is what is invented. The amplification of the germinal affection-event into a crisis—a whole-field oscillation poised to cross the threshold to a new consistency—makes the field of relation INTENSELY PROBLEMATIC. It urgently re-poses the problem of freedom, requiring the invention of a new solution: A NEW MODE OF FREEDOM. The solution can only come from a FABULATORY PLAYING out of the tendencies actuated by the strike of the sign of the other's affection. In the sudden uncertainty of the field, these tendencies are of many kinds—including counter-tendencies that reenergize, or passionately invent themselves on the spot, in an instantaneous TRANSITION IN PLACE. If a counter-tendency takes the ascendance, regime-change, or even revolution, may ensue. What began as a GERMINAL MICRO-EVENT, has then amplified into THE MOST FAR-REACHING MACRO-POLITICAL CHANGE imaginable. 
When this happens, who has decided? POLITICAL MILITANTS who had long been agitating for regime-change or revolution, following their own ideological platform, are invariably caught flat-footed, and are relegated to playing catch-up. If they are successful, that is exactly what they do with the potential released: catch it, capture it. It is not they who cause the revolution. Revolutions are catalytic, complexly co-conditioned and eventfully self-deciding, in dividual-transindividual osillation. It is the programmatic actions of the militants that invariably betray the revolution—for the simple reason that, however inclusive their ideology, in the affective commotion of the event, with its overcharge of contrastive tendencies, they ultimately only amount to a constituency. They themselves soon become the vehicles for the production and defense of resemblance/familiarity/contiguity-based solidarities, effectively reestablishing boundaries and patterns of exclusion. Every revolution is betrayed. The detonative potential released runs its course and is captured and recontained, if not by its partisans, then by its opponents, and if not by its opponents, by a newly minted constituency that the event itself has invented. The minting of a new postrevolutionary constituency that betrays the force of the revolution is typically assisted by the hero-worship of the figure of the militant, now safely dead.
This is not an argument against revolution. It is a reminder that affective-events of change have a LIFE CYCLE. They rise, and they subside. They live, on a wave of surplus-value of life that they themselves produce. And they die. It is a reminder that this should be factored in from the very beginning. It is not just the onset of the event that needs to be conditioned, but also its passing. What comes germinally modulates what happens after. Anarchist-oriented movements have always, rightly, reproached Marxist and other vanguardist movements of forgetting this, in their misplaced faith that the exclusions and hierarchies of the old order will simply "wither away" with the capitalist State. The history of the twentieth-century should have taught us by now that if the germinal conditions are not tended counter to this, the exclusions and hierarchies are apt to return in what can be an even more virulent form (as was the case with the "actually existing socialism" of the centralized industrial-State capitalism of the Soviet Union). The anarchist slogan that the mode of revolutionary activity must "prefigure" the society to come is not infantile idealism. It is the affective cry of revolutionary realism.
REVOLUTIONARY REALISM is an active recognition that when affective-events of change die, they lay themselves to rest having accomplished a level of transindividuality. The transdividual contagion, to paraphrase Simondon, endows the event with a VIRTUAL IMMORTALITY. The potential released remains in reserve, as what Whitehead would call a "COMPLEX ETERNAL OBJECT": a pure potential for the mutual inclusion of a diversity of contrasts, minus the requisite conditions for its determined return (Whitehead 1978, 271). After a suspensive interval, the potential is certain to reactuate, perhaps at a far-flung taking-place, at a time-taking of the next event's making. That is: if the conditions are given, again. This transmission of the GIFT of the conditions for change should be abductively built into the movements leading up to the event. A REVOLUTION ONLY ULTIMATELY BETRAYS ITSELF IF IT PROVES LESS WORTHY AFTER ITS DEATH THAN IT WAS NECESSARY AT ITS ONSET.
Setting the conditions for the event in a way that is already a re-giving of them beyond the event is not the preserve of the militant. It is the problem of the ACTIVIST. The conditions pass through bare-activity. ONLY ACTIVITY ACTS ON ACTIVITY, just as movement only arises from movement, and affection from affection. Freedom is ACTION UPON ACTION. Activism is catalytic-sign action upon the unspecified whole of a tensional field of activities already tendentially stirring. The militant indoctrinates and inculcates; the activist modulates and induces. The militant raises consciousnesses, and brutally punishes recalcitrance; the activist seeks to catalyze what Simondon called a sympathetic "communication of subconsciousnesses" (in the present vocabulary, affective nonconsciousnesses or dividualities). The militant works in the cognitive medium of judgment; the activist tweaks in the affective mode of perceptual judgment. The militant jumps over the stopping problem to "rationally" calculated conclusions; the activist jump-starts abductions. The militant strives to replace self-interest with class interest; the activist relationally moves BEYOND INTEREST.
Some of the events events of 2011 passed the threshold to revolution, or at least regime-change, as in the case of both Tunisia and Egypt. Both transitions were betrayed, the embryonic invention of freedom aborted by recapture. The whole-field macrpolitical threshold of change was not reached in the case of Occupy Wall Street, in spite of the fact that it induced its own extensively propagating event-series of Occupies of all description. Neither was it reached in the case of the Québecois "Maple Spring" (although electoral regime-change did occur). But these movements are NO LESS "IMMORTAL" FOR THAT "FAILURE." They remain successful on the "micropolitical," or affective-event-contagion level (Massumi 2009b). The MICROPOLITICAL is no more mutually exclusive of the macropolitical than affectivity is of rationality. It is a question of co-occurring modes of activity, constituting intertwined dimensions of events. The Québec student movement  of 2011-2012, unlike Occupy Wall Street, did have a specific macropolitical objective: to block an announced tuition increase. That objective was attained when the government was forced to call an election due to the unrest, and lost. The movement, however, had a micropolitical momentum that exceeded this macropolitical aim: toward not only a tuition freeze, but past that objective for free education, and even further, for an end to the neoliberalization of the university. This momentum developed, in the case of the largest and most radical student association, into an explicitly anti-capitalist manifesto issued in the leadup to the election in an attempt to prevent the movement from slipping into wholesale recapture by representative macropolitics. It is of the NATURE OF MICROPOLITICAL AFFECTIVE-EVENT MOVEMENTS THAT DO HAVE STATED MACROPOLITICAL OBJECTIVES TO EXCEED THEM. It is this EXCESS-OVER THE MACROPOLITICAL that gives macropolitical movements their intensity, and it is in their intensity that their power lies (their ontopower). The movement did subside after the electoral win—which amounted to little more than a change in the faces fronting essentially same, fundamentally neoliberal policies, given certain strategic differences. Thus the movement died by its own success. Failure is not the only way to fail.
"Micro" is a misnomer. The concept has little to do scale, and everything to do with CROSS-SCALE SENSITIVITIES and relational contagion. All of the events of 2011-2012 were micro-political successes, in spite of their macropolitical failures, in that they released a charge of potential that continues to percolate through the relational field, IN READY RESERVE TO JUMP-CUT TO NEW TAKING-PLACES AND MAKING-TIMES, GIVEN THE CONDITIONS. They HELD A MORE-TO-LIFE, AN EXCESS OF SURPLUS-VALUE OF LIFE, IN RESERVE. They released a quantum of affective-evental "immortality." Occupy Wall Street, for example, reactuated a tendency to "DIRECT DEMOCRACY," reinvented. It invented a new collective figure of freedom: the reclaiming of the public square (not the public sphere), for directly embodied cohabitation (not mediated speech); the open assembly model of indefinitely inclusive whole-field participation; practices favoring the communicative contagion model, as in the example of the "human megaphone;" the refusal to assign a leadership subset that would fragment the relational field and reproduce familiar structures of hierarchy; the refusal of representation, in favor of immediately affecting, effective speech (performative speech, or the use of the linguistic sign as affection-event trigger); and as part of the refusal of representation, a reluctance to enumerate a platform of demands that would make the movement insertable into existing macro-political structures of conflict resolution and negotiation. This is a formidable invention, undoubtedly with many afterlives to come. And with many pre-lives, in anarchist and autonomist event-series. 
"Given the conditions": it is paramount to remember that THE CONDITIONS INCLUDE SINGULARITy. The affection-event trigger in Tunis was utterly singular, to the point that it has a proper name: Mohamed Bouazizi. Bouazizi's singular act of self-immolation was explosive by virtue of the lay of the relational land in Tunisia, implanted as it was, and as is always the case, with an ensemble of presuppositions and tendencies that are utterly unique. Every event has its own affective complexion. For Occupy Wall Street, it was a signature composition of signs, including the economic trope of the "1% percent," the couterpowerful prestige of the Anonymous brand, and the mischievously symbolic leer of the Guy Fawkes mask. The cascade of affective events occurs through a multiplier effect, not unlike the kinds of multiplier effects that neoliberalism vaunts. The difference is that COUNTERPOWER CONTAGIONS MULTIPLY THE SINGULARITY OF SERIALLY LINKED EVENTS. 
Neoliberal multiplier effects return to the same old figure of human capital: the subject of interest as enterprise-subject, caught in the paradoxes of rational choice. Neoliberalism thrives on producing new variations on the enterprise-subject. This is a remarkably multiple-singular sameness. But a sameness it is nonetheless, in the sense that all of the variations revolve around an endlessly reproduced equation between corporate entities and individual entities. The "corporations are people too" aspect of neoliberalism imposes a single model of (non)personhood that operates across scales, but only in the register of private interest. The collective level and the individual level are required to share a formal identity: that of the person as enterprise-subject. They are required, formally, to conform to that overaching model. Amid the diversity, in and through the proliferation of singularities whose emergence its far-from-equilibrium oscillatory processual fielding fosters, neoliberalism strives to hook every enterprise fish in its swell with a formal equation whose aim is to hold it all together in the capitalist orbit of the tendency to produce quantitative surplus-value. 
Counterpower contagions affirm the multiple-singular, unhooked, or hooked only on the problem of the reinvention of the freedom of events. Unhooked from the enterprise-subject, they do not impose that equation—or any other equation. They pose the DIFFERENTIAL PROBLEM of a diversity of tendencies mutually included in the same affective wave-packet, without prejudging what might issue. To the extent that they live up to their vocation of living out the full complexity of the event, they are TENDENTIALLY ANTI-CAPITALIST BY NATURE: fabulations of anticapitalist freedom; open-range becomings; becomings-feral, potentially beyond the human, let alone human-capital, pale. "Machinic" autonomies of decision. In capitalist lingo: uncalculable "externalities."43
The idea that counterpowerful tendencies to capitalism stir immanent to its field, should not be confused with the "accelerationist" position often attributed (erroneously) to Deleuze and Guattari. According to the ACCELERATIONIST MODEL, the tendencies of capitalism should be pushed to the utmost extreme, in order to precipitate a crisis to end all crises. The capitalist tendency toward the production of ever greater surplus-value, through ever faster turnover, is precisely what has created the far-from-equilibrium conditions in which it operates. Push this manic tendency further, the thinking goes, and the whole, constitutively unstable, balancing act will come crashing down. The problem is that even crises from which the capitalist process is able to recover occasion endless misery. It is difficult to imagine what degree of joy might possibly rebound from the final crash. Deleuze and Guattari do not subscribe to this analysis, which ignores a distinction that is as crucial to their thought as it is to the present account: the distinction between QUALITATIVE SURPLUS-VALUE OF LIFE and quantitative capitalist surplus-value. It also ignores a second, equally crucial, distinction: between consumptive activity (revolving around hedonic satisfaction) and CREATIVE ACTIVITY (aiming for intensification). The forecast final crash would come from over-production in the name of over-consumption. These are essentially capitalist virtues, and remain so at whatever extreme they are taken to.44 
The tendencies immanent to the capitalist field that Deleuze and Guattari argue hold the germs of revolutionary potential are not capitalist tendencies. They may become so, through recapture, as has sadly been the case for many of the tendencies of the '60s. But in their own stirrings, in their bare-active budding, they are TENDENTIALLY ANTICAPITALIST IN the most fundamental of ways: in that they affirm the production of qualitative surplus-value of life for itself, as a value in itself (or more precisely, of the event). In a word, they are micropolitical in the sense just defined. They tend not toward self-interested satisfaction, but relationally eventful joy. They are not consumptive. Rather, they are open-endedly creative. They do not calculate rationally. They invent abductively. They do not strategize the next step. They fabulate a jump-cut. They are catalyzed and cascade, leaving "immortal" remainders of newly constellated potentials that "want" nothing more than to return, in an autonomy of self-decision, as the functional affective equivalent of volition. They are dividual, in cross-sensitivity with the transindividual. They are their own self-affirming and self-effecting infra-trans desire.
Capitalist society can bear many manifestations of interest, but no manifestation of desire. (Deleuze and Guattari 1983, 379, translation modified).