Toward an Anticapitalist Art of the Event
  
CAPITALIST POWER, IT WAS SAID EARLIER, IS AN ONTOPOWER: a positive power of becoming, a creative power operating relationally between the oscillatory poles of the dividual and the transindividual (its own individualist rhetoric notwithstanding; or, more precisely, withstanding all too well its paradox). ONTOPOWER, IT WAS ALSO SAID, CAN ONLY BE COUNTERED BY ONTOPOWER. Further, it was asserted that this requires practicing intuition as a political art. "Art," because a counter-capitalist ontopower brings into relief the aesthetic dimension of life, defined by Whitehead as the invention of modes of compossibility among normally mutually excluding contrasts, in accordance with life's "ultimate aim" of intensification. Intuition as a political art was said to be an art of finessing the event: tweaking its conditions, in order to modulate its tendings and their issuings into determinate action, toward the collective fabulation predicated on a QUALITATIVE ALTER-ECONOMY of directly lived life-value.
This is an eminently pragmatic undertaking. It involves experimenting with PRACTICES OF EVENT-CONDITIONING. What kind of perceptual judgments produce an expanding landscape of potential? How can presuppositions be eventfully implanted in the relational field to tend it for intensification? What compositions of signs of the passion of the other are apt to induce a sympathetic event of singular-multiple contagion, beyond the human pale of self-interest? What kinds of primings lend themselves to the emergence of contrastive compossibilities? How can relations be moved in such as way as to give rise to new passions? And the new passions to new tendencies? And the new tendencies to the invention of new settlements that do not, too quickly or too harshly, relimit the potential released? How can these settlements be so constituted as to desire their own surpassing, in a next freedom-of-the-event in an ongoing series, contagiously overcoming the containments into which each event in the series inevitably subsides? How can all of this be accomplished abductively, in the immediacy of the event? How can the affective nonconscious be politically operationalized, without fostering a fascism? How do you orient the political art of intuition toward the serial reinvention of freedom? How do you learn to self-prime in this direction, in cross-sensitive collaboration with the primings at large in the relational field, given the limits of reflective reason? In short, how do you MACHINE TRANSINDIVIDUAL AUTONOMIES OF DECISION, given their … autonomy? And in a way as resistant as possible to capitalist recapture?
There is only one answer to these questions: there is no general answer to them. The purpose of raising them is not to prefigure a solution, but rather to point to the need for a proliferation of practices aimed at developing TECHNIQUES OF RELATION that answer to this problematic delineated by the unanswerability-in-general of such questions. Although unanswerable in general, the problem is singularly stageable. It is eminently possible to set in place conditions that reactivate the problematic field these questions gesture toward. When that is done, with sufficient art—with sufficient technique leavened with a healthy dose of relational intuition—an affective event may well be occasioned. There is no way around a trial-and-error approach. Each event is the affective germ of a series of events that belong to each other, at a distance and across suspensive intervals. Practices of the political art of the event are experimental practices that want nothing so much as cascading company, commotionally taking-place as they serially make their own time.
 The events need not be dramatic. And they need not wait for an exceptional conjuncture of catalytic conditions. Ordinary events can release potential, in their own intensely modest way. They can seriate, in the tensional gaps of the texture of the everyday. Micropolitical events ostensibly occurring on a small-scale always have the potential to ignite, and amplify. It happens when least expected. In any case, militating for revolution also only ever works when it is least expected—on the back of a self-deciding event-contagion whose trigger-conditions are by nature beyond militantism's consciousness-raising ken. And when it does succeed on its own steam, it is because it is capable of causal forcing—and thus already carries the germs of its own betrayal in its programmatically calculating macro-political genes.
So: no need to wait for the "right" conditions. There are no right conditions. There are only singular conditions. Experimentally tweak them. Emit signs of passion. Catalyze whatever events lie in your dividual-transindividual reach. Make joy. Take joy in what qualitiative surplus-values of life are potentially ready for the living where you are. Make a micropolitical commotion, and nudge it toward abductive action. Surrender yourself artfully, in a relation to others that is your self-relation to the future, in an activism of the event.45