After holding rationality's invisible fingers to the flame for so many pages, it is time to give it its due. Reason, there is no denying, has a crucial role to play—provided it reins in its own hybris and takes Hume's word for it that it has no motive force ("reason alone can never produce any action, or give rise to volition"; Hume 1984, 3.1.3, 460). By Hume's reckoning, reason plays two roles.
The first task is critique, understood in the very specific sense of the identification of errors of perceptual judgment. These can be thought of as objective illusions: incongruities effectively built into the relational conditions of an occasion of perception that embed a defect into its genesis. Whitehead's favorite example is taking an object in a mirror to lie behind it. Objective illusions are not simple glitches. They are the positive product of life's entropic tendency to the conformation of feelings: habitual presuppositions (for example, the regularities of perspective) that feed forward into a new situation because the usual cues are in force, while counter-cues that something is amiss, although they are also present, fail to take effect. Objective illusions are a conditioned failure to register the full singularity of the situation. They result in the newly arising occasion being likened, in its essential traits, to previously known situations. The new situation is erroneously experienced as being more similar to a class of other events, than it is different in its own occurrence. In its critical role, reason can exercise its historically acquired taste for foundations or grounds by returning perceptual judgment to its grounding in singularity, in cases where it strays too far toward the perceptual pole of the conformation of feelings. This task requires reason to overcome its also historically acquired, and perhaps even more strongly engrained, passion for generality, and the classificatory logic that sustains it. Thus reason must  concurrently conduct a self-critique of its love of the general idea. An objective illusion is precisely the form in which general ideas are effectively found in the world. Traditionally, "rationality" has aggrandized them—amplified them— rather than regrounding them in the singularity from which they come. The "subject" is the most widespread and processually significant of these rationally-aggrandized objective illusions.
The second task that Hume allows reason is corrective: to evaluate the efficacity of a means a tendency has decided upon to further itself along its chosen orientation, toward its desired terminus. This task allows reason to indulge in another of its loves: the passion for causality. "Rationality" traditionally favors explanation through the identification of local, antecedent causes, whose linear effects are proportional to the transmitted impetus. This is perfectly adequate to relatively closed, simple systems, on certain levels of reality (those answering to the classical laws of thermodynamics). Under conditions of complexity, many forms of rationality have upped their game to include structural or formal causes. This gives up on the locality of an isolatable cause, but retains a certain linearity of effect: for example, transitions between ages, epochs, or paradigms. Still further down the road toward complexity, systems theory and complexity theory itself have had to rationally recognize the reality of recursive causality: feedback. Once feedback is allowed, there is a boomerang effect that crushes any illusions that might have remained that linear cause-effect relations are generally salvageable: feedfoward. 
Feedforward rebounds on the very concept of tendency. Tendency is a passionate orientation governing movement toward an attractor, or desired terminus (using "desire" in the subjectless sense developed in this essay of an autonomy of decision affirming its own affective motive force). The emergent, nonlinear complexity-effects of feedback-feedforward operating together can alter or even reinvent the terminus. This is what it means to invent a tendency. Given the natural disposition of the world to becoming, this reinvention of tendential termini is more often the case than not. The terminus, as William James observed, "ninety-times out of a hundred" remains "virtual" (James 1996, 69, 71-72). It is not a "the" terminus: it is a singularly multiple constellation of superposed, potential terminal states, together in contrast, and under constant reformatting. There is only one thing a tendency, as an affective volition, wants more than to reach its terminus, and that is to continue—to affirm its reality as a tending-toward (as opposed to an arrival, which is a very different animal). Tending-toward is constitutively open-ended, by nature implicated in movements of invention. 
Reason's means-testing task is therefore much more complicated than it might seem at first. Rationality cannot presume to be capable of handling this corrective role in isolation, because what needs its evaluations are tendencies, whose open-ended emergent complexity is precisely the kind of thing that is beyond rationality's ken. The first thing reason needs to do to make itself worthy of this task is to conduct another self-critique, this time of its passion for causality. Like reason's love for generality, its attachment to causality is a glorification of habit: a product of the engrained expectation of a certain result based on the regularity with which like results were experienced in past occasions perceived to be of a similar kind.46 Rationality's overwrought attachment to traditional models of causality is thus another result of the objective illusion that consists in unperceiving the singularity of situations, specifically as regards the self-relation to their own future of the tendencies presently running through the situation's perceived configuration. The two self-critiques of reason must be intimately coupled. Together, they must disabuse reason of its instinctive distrust toward affectivity and intuition.
Thus disabused, reason can proceed to its second task. In order to succeed at its corrective task, reason must enter into the closest of cooperation with abductive experience. It must processually embrace what its hybris too often leads it to regard as its "irrational" opposite. It must become a fellow-traveller of the kinds of relational experimentations described at the end of the main essay above. It must lovingly accompany them, recognizing that the "means" it can test, and help construct, are techniques of relation: experimental setups for producing felicitous conditions for the inventive exercise of abduction, in the infra-transindividual mode in which it natively operates.
When reason abandons its hybristic belief in its power to be a motive force, and its overweened sense of its own grandiosity, when it surrenders itself to co-operation with affectivity, it actually gains something it can never attain by itself: creativity. The fact that reading and multi-step mathematical operations can occur nonconsciously means that highly elaborated, rational techniques can feedback-feedforward into the germinal level of experience, to operate flush with perception's genesis. Consciously elaborated means of action can become nonconscious, as part of a process whereby practice becomes perception. The results of cognition and rational cogitation go down the rabbit-hole that is the regressive endpoint of life, turning around from which life arises anew. There, rationality enters through its own results into superposition with the other modes of activity churning there, including of course those which give rise to perceptual judgments and abductions. Rationality actively enters into mutual inclusion with affectivity—effectively enfolding into the affective wave-packet. As enveloped in bare activity, reason becomes ontopowerful. By association, at least: in co-operation. It becomes a contributory co-operative factor of becoming. 
At this point, rationality has lost all pretense of passing final judgment, alone from on high. It loses its grim enjoyment for imposing "correctness": for normalizing situations through the imposition of general ideas, and disciplining processes by in the name of causality. It has found joy. It has lost its prescriptive vocation, and thrown its lot in with intuition. It has agreed to be in the service of spontaneity.
In the phrase "practice becomes perception," emphasis should be retained on the word "practice." A "corrective" function is not one that imposes a "correctness" on an activity from without. A corrective works immanently to a process to tweak it along from within. The mode of the corrective is not judgment, but trial and error: in other words, the iterative re-staging of event-conditions which progressively explore the reserve of potential in an event, as part of a continuing series of events, affectively interlinked at a distance. Trial-and-error assumes no posture of correctness. It enters the event-contagious stream with tweak-effective technique. Technique is applied to the catalytic conditions of the relational field whose characteristics are repeated and varied across the stream of the punctual events composing a series. A corrective contributes to steering the stream. If you want a metaphor for reason's mode of activity in its becoming-creative, it would be more nautical than juridical. Reason, in co-operation with intuition, is not a judge. It is more like a rudder.
All of this depends on rationality accepting the humbling fact that it does not have to be opposed to passion, and enter into heroic combat with affectivity. It has to distance itself from its own history. In experiencing the joy of ontopowerful invention, rationality will come to accept the fact that it is itself a passion after all. Just one of a contrary humor historically, overly enamored of its own hybris, and strangely overestimating of its own tendential force. When reason reconciles itself to its own passion, it can finally tend to the relational future of creative co-operation. This entails admitting that its love for generality and causality were always already passions—albeit of a limitative calling, acting to curtail more inventive and expansive passions, thus figuring as passionate factors of anti-becoming. Reason must admit its own passionate nature, in order to convert itself from its limitative exercse into a force for becoming, in an immanent self-overcoming internal to its own critical/corrective exercise. Now reason is in a position to return the favor affectivity has always done it, in allowing structures of rationality to live off the capture of its positive force for invention without so much as a thanks.
As a passion, the becoming-creative of reason is liable to conversion into emotion, as is the case for all affect. As oriented to the relational future, reason is in processual embrace with the process of sympathy. The emotions into which it is most helpful for its passion to convert, in pursuit of its second affective task, are concern and generosity: care for the relational event. But this should not be allowed to obscure the ontopowerful fact that these emotions are essentially personalized expressions of the potential for the relational event. At bare-active bottom, at the inmost endpoint rearising of life, they are nonpersonal virtues of the event. (Manning and Massumi, 2014).47
Mission: affectively-rationally live the generosity of the event. 
Tend it, and enjoy.