One aspect is the immediate registering of the IMPERATIVES of the situation. These are the nonconscious presuppositions implanted in the field as you brace into it, making the coming event non-optional. This is the aspect of perceptual judgment: CONCLUSIONS ABOUT THE SITUATION THAT PRE-MAKE THEMSELVES AS THE PREMISES OF AN EVENT and as the energizer of the movements composing it. A second aspect is the taking form of a field of potential holding within itself a MULTICIPLICITY OF PATHS OF ACTION, corresponding to different outcomes. These potential alternatives come together in the immediacy of the situation, as a single complex. Their coming-together in all immediacy in-forms the perceptual judgment with an array of hypothetical unfoldings. This aspect of IMMEDIATELY LIVED HYPOTHESIS is what Peirce calls ABDUCTION. Both of these aspects, perceptual judgment and abduction, come with yet another aspect: tendency. The imperatives of the situation registering in perceptual judgment actuate a tendency—to stay alive. The abductive registering of hypothetical unfodings inhabiting the perceptual judgment bifurcate that dominant tendency into an array of subtendencies. These fight it out among themselves, in a time too short for them to actually interact with each other as separable actions/reactions. Rather, they come together in commotion: in immanent co-motion. For each is an incipient action path: a poising for movement; an orientation toward a terminus. That's a fourth aspect: BARE ACTIVITY, as a coming-together in readiness potential of what can actually only terminally unfold as a parting of the ways. Only one path with come about. The co-motion of tendencies works itself out, and one issues forth into action, as of its own accord. This is a fifth aspect: cut. A decision has been moved to make itself; you are moved to embody it. The decision comes through you. Which leads to another, utterly crucial, aspect: all of this is felt to matter. The tendential commotion only works itself out due to the forward pressure exerted by the fact that the coming event is intensely felt to matter. It is the affective intensity of the situation that powers its playing out. In the end, it will have all been about desire, from the beginning. You effectively desired to survive. You wanted it. Or rather: the eventful decision that moved you by moving through you affirmed that tendency in you. "In you": in the dividual sense.