The filtering-out of complex relational effects can actually hinder the course of science. Evolutionary biologist Lynn Margulis revolutionized the scientific understanding of the origin of multicellular life by reintegrating relational complexity-effects, and then accomplishing the feat of extracting from them a scientifically admissable notion—that of endosymbiosis (or immanent intertwinement; see Margulis 1999). "She simply refused not to believe her own intuition" (Archibald 2012, R6). The most far-reaching advancements in scientific understanding invariably involve dipping back into the superpositive "chaos" of the affective wave-packet, in order to extract a rationalizable complexity-effect, and to formulate it in such a way that it can gain admission to controlled experimentation as an independent variable lending itself to reproducible results (Deleuze and Guattari 1994, 130-131, 202). This construction of independent variables as building blocks for a larger structure makes science's achievements as much inventions as discoveries. These are not mutually exclusive terms. (Stengers 1997, 146; Stengers 2000, 80-81; Stengers 2011, 306). The creativity proper to science as a structure of rationality is a function of its typically disavowed fishing in the pond of singularity. Nobel-prize winning microbiologist Barbara McClintock was unabashed about this. She described her scientific process, which led to crucial advances in the understanding of genetics, as revolving around her ability to use "empathy" to intuitively "descend" into the complexity of the internal milieu of the cell (Stengers 1997, 115). It is a rarely spoken secret of science that perceptual judgment and abduction are prime factors entering into the mangle of its everyday practice.
One of the most important implications of this for the present essay is that it requires the statement made earlier that "gut feeling" fails when it comes to probabilities to be amended. Philosopher Michael Strevens has written on the central role of "PHYSICAL INTUITIONS" in scientific discovery (Strevens 2013). Probabilities are difficult to handle intuitively in general—which is to say in the abstract. However, in the singularity of embodied situations, as in the bull example, our understanding of the regularities of causal relationships, as ingrained in our body's sensorimotor habits, kicks in. This is accomplished not, as Strevens understands it, by the automatic application of "rules of inference." It is not a separable, cognitive operation, as Strevens himself admits, although without drawing the necessary implications of that insight for his cognitivist vocabulary: you just "see what will happen next," directly, without actually performing calculations (Strevens 2013, 1; emphasis added). This perceptual ability, by the account developed here, arises from the complex relation between the modes of activity constitutive of the life of the body, co-contributing to an outcome through their mutual inclusion in the unfolding event, on the germinal level of bare activity, in the production of an emergent perceptual judgment. It results from the co-operation of the sense modes, at the core of which in many situations is an effective fusion of vision and proprioception, with sound a close second in terms of its superpositional trigger-happiness (Massumi 2002, 58-61, 179-184; Massumi 2011, 95-97, 112, 124-125, 137, 143-144).