The two-pronged question of what ensures that choices are made in accordance with the decider's self-interest and, when that is the case, what prevents the choices made here from doing immediate harm elsewhere before multiplier effects have had a chance to bubble through the relational field, in theory to everyone's satisfaction, were of central concern to the early theorists whose thought informed the doctrine of the subject of interest. They sought to respond to them by turning to moral philosophy. Turning instead to politics—as will be suggested here—was excluded on the one hand by their mistrust of the State, and on the other by the fact that non-State-based collectivist politics are pointedly incompatible with the economic individualism they advanced. Foucault cites Adam Smith's elder, David Hume, on these points, rather than Smith's own The Theory of Moral Sentiments. This is presumably because the radicality of Hume's position on the relation between rationality and affectivity is more resonant with the unspecified whole of the flow of things and the world of today's neoliberalism, and involves a significantly different view of how self-interest plays out. Foucault cites a famous passage from Hume's Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals on the decisional impotence of reason:
It appears evident that—the ultimate ends of human actions can never, in any case, be accounted for by reason, but recommend themselves entirely to the sentiments and affections of mankind, without any dependance on the intellectual faculties. Ask a man WHY HE USES EXERCISE; he will answer, BECAUSE HE DESIRES TO KEEP HIS HEALTH. If you then enquire, WHY HE DESIRES HEALTH, he will readily reply, BECAUSE SICKNESS IS PAINFUL. If you push your enquiries farther, and desire a reason WHY HE HATES PAIN, it is impossible he can ever give any. This is an ultimate end, and is never referred to any other object. Perhaps to your second question, WHY HE DESIRES HEALTH, he may also reply, that IT IS NECESSARY FOR THE EXERCISE OF HIS CALLING. If you ask, WHY HE IS ANXIOUS ON THAT HEAD, he will answer, BECAUSE HE DESIRES TO GET MONEY. If you demand WHY? IT IS THE INSTRUMENT OF PLEASURE, says he. And beyond this it is an absurdity to ask for a reason. It is impossible there can be a progress IN INFINITUM; and that one thing can always be a reason why another is desired. Something must be desirable on its own account, and because of its immediate accord or agreement with human sentiment and affection. (Hume 1912, Appendix 1)