It is upon this basis that LOVE and HATE arise. Spinoza defines love as a "joy with the accompanying idea of an external cause," and hate as "a sadness with the accompanying idea of an external cause" (with sadness defined as a diminution of the powers of existence enveloped in intensity, and interpreted in the present essay as lying on the same continuum as joy rather than being its opposite; Spinoza 1985, 3, P13, schol., 502). It is also upon this basis that the linking of sympathy to Hume's good friends, resemblance, familiarity, and contiguity, occurs. The interiorization of the affective event coincides with the transition from immediately-thinkingly-feelingly-lived to reflectively-thought. A POTENTIAL is bracingly experienced. It is nonconscious. A POSSIBILITY, for its part, can be consciously cogitated upon. Love and hate give rise to endless ruminations: scenarios of conquest and revenge, the strategems by which they might be obtained. Obtained—as satisfactions. It is also here that the hedonic duality between pleasure and pain kicks in in a way that begins to structure one's life in what almost inevitably plays out along conventional lines—too often embarrassingly clichéd lines—due to the relentless priming dedicated toward just this end. Love and hate are emotions corresponding to the interiorization of the affective event as a hedonic subjective content amenable to conventional formatting. As with all emotions, this containment of affective intensity is never complete. All emotions carry a remainder of intensity, to which they owe their vivacity—as well as their etymology ("e-mote": to move out of oneself, as in the phrase "to be beside oneself"). There is a quantum of joy even in hatred. Intensity cuts across the hedonic duality, on a transversal path of its own.
Thus in one direction, the sense of the sign of the other is a landscape of potential that tends to be translated into a possible world. Enveloped in the strike of the sign, mutually included with the potential it actuates, there is a world of subjective emotion in the key of possibility.