This form of conditioning, which modulates behavior by implanting presuppositions and activating tendencies in an open situation of encounter, is called PRIMING. Priming operates less through stimulus-response than through CUES whose force is situational. Priming addresses threshold postures (presuppositions) orienting a participant's entry into the situation, plus the associated tendencies that carry the orientation forward through the encounter. Accordingly, it does not exercise the same kind of power as normative-disciplinary mechanisms (of which both traditional forms of conditioning are highly distilled forms). Precisely because priming is orienting and activating, modulating rather than molding, it cannot guarantee the same level of uniformity of result. The results in the studies are impressive statistically speaking. It is stunning that the choice-blindness effect was observed in a majority to two-thirds of participants. But that still leaves a great deal of room for deviance and variation ("minority" tendencies), and nothing in the way the study was designed can indicate anything about what made the difference. In other words, unlike in normative-disciplinary modes of power, deviance is left to its own devices. The setup was AFFIRMATIVE in the sense that it implanted and activated in order to effect—rather than squelch and punish in order to negate. A significant minority of participants brought counter-tendencies to the encounter which self-affirmed, against the statistically prevailing conditioning. In other words, those who did not display choice-blindness were more SELF-PRIMING than effectively conditioned by the other's setting of the situational parameters. But then, were not the participants whose actions did display choice-blindness also self-affirming their tendencies, in the sense that they acquiesced to their own tendencies leading in that direction, and whatever countervailing tendencies they had were not allowed to determine the end result? And who would not have countervailing tendencies? Who does not harbor some degree of resistance to authority, or some mischievous inclination to throw a wrench into the machinery of knowledge associated with it?