None of this is in any way meant as a lament that the neoliberal environment in general, and the internet in particular, corrupts the sovereign power of individual choice, enslaves desires, and produces soft-powered citizens of regretful malleability. Netizens are not citizens in a degraded public sphere. They are denizens in a complex neoliberal field of life. The point is that mechanisms of priming are distributed everywhere throughout the field. They are networked into it, as well as being punctually set in place locally under certain circumstances by particular procedures of presupposition-planting and tendency-activation.18 Contemporary marketing strategies work at both ends, the distributed and the local. They exploit the ubiquity of communications technology to sow local seeds of priming that are encountered by the units of human capital that we are at every step in our wanderings: a free-range world of cues. 
The very ease with which the cue-sowing can spread and proliferate makes the habitat of homo oeconimicus a highly complex environment of primes. Under neoliberalism, priming goes feral. Priming in the wild saturates the field of life, forming a complex ecology with more institutional varieties involving particular encounters consciously foregrounding specialized activity (as was the case with the surveys). This makes it a necessity for individuals to learn to navigate their way through that environment, and cultivate tendencies for dealing with the churning of tendencies and the way it issues into actions that cumulatively determine the direction of their life. In other words, they are obliged, consciously or not (mostly not), to self-manage their prime encounters: to TEND THEIR TENDINGS. This is done through the patterns of navigation, access, and encounter they weave, and the cumulative effect can be significantly inflected by how their openness to chance encounter and sensitivity to relation is modulated by those patternings. This means that the neoliberal denizen is ultimately as self-priming as it is conditioned by the machinations of others. What direction their life takes is a complex collaboration playing out between their own dividual tendencies, conditionings of their behavior by other individuals and by situational setups, and accidents of chance encounter. CHOICE AND NON-CHOICE ENTER AN ACTIVE ZONE OF INDISTINCTION.