This line of thinking is much closer to Deleuze's later account of the mode of postindustrial capitalist power he named "CONTROL" than it is to Foucault's own concepts of BIOPOWER AND BIOPOLITICS of the late 1970s, elaborated in the period directly preceding The Birth of Biopolitics. Deleuze's short essay on "control" can be read as a capsule formulation of the "environmental" mode of power to which Foucault passingly alludes (Deleuze 1995; translation modified in all quotations from this essay).20 
Deleuze says that in control society, the individual is "undulatory, launched in orbit, on a continuous beam" (Deleuze 1995, 180). It "surfs" the flows, rides the waves. When surfing, your technology, the surfboard, has to slice the wave to ride it. It cuts in, to extract a quantum of forward momentum. The subject of interest as human capital does the same thing with economic flows. It cuts into the flow of labor to extract a quantum of forward life-momentum called a wage. It cuts again with its wage, this time into a flow of goods whose purchase extracts a quantum of life-satisfaction rewarding all the pain and sacrifice that has gone into energizing the forward momentum, encouraging one to stay on the wave. Behind closed doors, it may also, depending on how it invests its sensual desires, cut into the flow of sexed bodies in such a way as to extract a quantum of progeny: a reproductive human-capital investment for its own future well-being (intergenerational caregivers for when the old machine starts going to rust).21 The subject of interest as human capital surfs its future in range of ways, cutting into the flow of the days of its life to extract forward momentum from each of its investments in life-activity, endeavoring to sustain the momentum to the end as best it can. At every cut, it slices into its own nature—for it changes as it carries itself forward, becoming as it goes. It DOES NOT DIVIDE WITHOUT CHANGING IN NATURE (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 33, 483). It does not cut without continuously becoming.