"In the society of control, the enterprise has replaced the factory" (Deleuze 1995, 179).  We are no longer in the disciplinary regime. The enclosed spaces producing and enforcing the norms of the well-disciplined life have developed cracks, and leak in all directions. For decades we have been experiencing a "generalized crisis of all of the sites of confinement, the prison, the hospital, the factory, the school, the family" (Deleuze 1995, 179). It is not at all that institutions of the disciplinary regime have disappeared. If anything, they have multiplied, and some, like the prison, have ballooned to unheard-of proportions in countries like the United States. It is less that they have disappeared than that the disciplinary regime they deploy within their enclosures no longer defines the overall field of power. The "massive withdrawal from the normative-disciplinary regime" that Foucault was sensing already in the late 1970s is best conceived as a resituating of disciplinary institutions within a larger ecology of regimes of power whose overall mode of power is of another cast (Massumi 2009). "New forces knocking at the doors" of disciplinary enclosures have integrated them into larger field. The passages through them and relays among them multiply and intensify. They are integrated as hard segments in the general conditions of flow, like boulders in a snow-melt flood. Swirling around them and in the cracks between them pass other movements, following other logics: "ultrarapid open-air forms of control" (Deleuze 1995, 179). It is these open-field effects that characterize the overall field of power. These are "environmental effects": emergent effects snatched on the fly from the complexifying flow. This capturing of effective energy from the flow occurs immanently to the field, in the "autonomy" of the open-air "environmental spaces" (Foucault 2008, 261). In the environment, many a disciplinary enclosure is set down, but none with the power to close itself to the field, so as not to keep on rolling over on itself.