Reagan's body is struck with the same inescapable contradiction as that of the First Emperor.  It is trapped in a dialectic of immanence and transcendence that can have no synthesis. The closer the nation comes to embodying its own unifying subjective substance, the farther that substance recedes into another dimension, until it approaches the vanishing point. The more exalted the unifying substance, the more ethereal it is;  the more ethereal it is, the more painfully inadequate it proves in unifying the heterogeneous material terms for which it strives to provide a common substance. The unification drive leads only to disappearance and fragmentation: the physicality of the unifying body disappears, leaving only its image, which is then relayed to infinity, composed, decomposed, re-membered, and dismembered. 
	Each move to a higher unifying substance requires the new Number One to subsume all preceding terms. That substance must therefore subsume in one way or another its own conditions of emergence. Every image of unity contains within it a trace of the dialectic of immanence and transcendence that produced it. Since the dialectic takes the form of an alternation between a lack and an excess inscribed in the unifying substance, images of that substance will also alternate between those two poles.
	Reagan's body was lacking in a big way. Reagan was a walking amputation. A preamputation. He was always already lame. It is interesting, and more than a bit worrying, to find that the First Emperor's preoccupation with feet recurs in Reagan's first autobiography. The title was taken from the movie King's Row. In Reagan's words, he played the part of a "gay blade" named Drake "who cut a swathe among the ladies." Drake, it seems, took to dating the daughter of a prominent doctor, who was not at all pleased with the arrangement. One day Drake was injured in a railroad accident. When he regained consciousness his legs were gone. The father of the woman he was dating had been the doctor assigned to treat him. "Where's the rest of me?" Drake cries. 
	Reagan presents this scene as his most challenging role and the acme of his acting career. "A whole actor would find such a scene difficult; giving it the necessary dramatic impact as half an actor was murderous. I felt I had neither the experience nor the talent to fake it. I simply had to find out how it really felt, short of actual amputation." So he consulted physicians and commiserated with cripples. But, he says, "I was stumped." In the end, he manages. "I had put myself, as best I could, in the body of another fellow;" in becoming a good actor "I had become a semi-automaton." He is now a real-life amputee. And at that point he realizes that half of him has always been missing, he was always just limping along through life repeating his lines. He finds the rest of him in the mother's milk of patriotism and conservative ideals. What he does not say is that for the analogy to be complete this second, real-life healing would logically take the same form as the first: he would become whole by taking over "the body of another fellow." Now the other body a president would have take over to make himself whole is--every body. The body politic. Reagan verges on saying outright that the political magic he would work is akin to national possession: countless bodies unified by the same American spirit, one glorious body politic repeating in unison an old actor's favorite lines. Instead, he reminisces about his father, a shoe salesman who "spent hours analyzing the bones of the foot." It comes as little surprise later on when we learn that after being delivered with divorce papers by his first wife, Reagan went out and promptly broke a leg. And that what attracted him to his second wife, Nancy, was hearing that her father was a prominent surgeon. Years later, the most positive thing biographer Kitty Kelly would find to say about Nancy was that she had the "ability to embrace physical deformity." [Kelly 1990:358] Where Is the Rest of Me? ends with a quote from Clark Gable: 
The most important thing a man can know is that, as he approaches his own door, someone on the other side is listening for the sound of his footsteps."4