The hero of democracy (in this case Vaclav Havel, first post-Communist president of Czechoslovakia) is alive and dead, at liberty in jail, standing on his face for freedom--all in a single sentence, of sorts. A residual homology between country and body is detectable in the face that begins to reflect the soul of the people, before suddenly metamorphosing into a foot. And how will the "education president" improve education, a high school student innocently asks? "Well, I'm going to kick that one right into the end zone of the secretary of education" [ibid.]. When the well-being of the body/well-being of the nation equation is successfully made, it is not only with the wrong body but with the wrong end of it, as the President nonchalantly takes his leadership and kicks it up an educated ass.15 
	Bush gave it up. He borrowed another tactic from Reagan: he got scripted. When his aids began to pre-plan the questions and responses at as many of his press sessions and meetings with the public as possible, Bush's grammar improved markedly. But that left nothing to identify him by. Renouncing Bushspeak meant losing his only media-worthy characteristic: his spectacular lack of personality, popularly referred to as the "wimp factor." Bushspeak is a form of agrammatical self-effacement. According to a New York Times analysis ["Not Pretty. Seems to Work, Though," 9 March 1990], it is marked by an almost complete avoidance of the first person pronoun "I" and a tendency to drop active verbs. Non-Bushspeak Bush speak is a grammatical version of the same disappearing act. The stated policy of his press officials is that less is better, in stark contrast to the Reagan team's "any image, even a bad image, is good by definition." A successful Bush press meeting consists in issuing "nonwords," phrases that will  be carried on TV or in the print media but will be so slight in meaning and lackluster in character as to escape notice ["From Bush, a Few Choice Nonwords," International Herald Tribune, 31 August-1 September 1991].