Like Reagan, Bush withdrew into an audio-visual relay. But where Reagan had disappeared into his own self-aggrandizement, receding flag-bedecked into an infinite feedback loop provided by television as political apparatus of entertainment, Bush took the country with him on a one-way ride to oblivion. The Bush relay consisted in a video-mounted missile superimposing its point of view on the home-viewer's set as it zoomed for the kill, followed by blackness, the mark of efficiency, as the target blew. Reagan disappeared into the disseminating entertainment screen, multiplying himself beyond measure in a burst of color. Bush stepped aside from it, making room for another screen, a targeting screen, fatal in its monochrome finitude. Of course, the oblivion that was screened was not Bush's or America's per se, but that of the "enemy," the tastelessly moustachioed Arab. But in a way it was Bush's: the missile screen was his proxy body, a graphic incarnation of the willingness to kill in the name of all that America stood for (in this case, the "democratic" principle of non-intervention that he had not long before flagrantly violated in Panama). Bush missile vision: the look of America at war, standing, living and killing, whatever, for "freedom."
	The old Bush spent the better part of the Gulf War quietly vacating. Employing a technological body double had allowed him to melt along with "America" into the military apparatus, while simultaneously putting his genteel way across the green. The President reappeared after his early troubles with Bushspeak and the wimp factor transformed. He had split. Time magazine dubbed him "Men of the Year," dividing its cover between two half-images of his face. "A Tale of Two Bushes," went the title. "One finds a vision on the global stage; the other still displays none at home" [7 January 1991]. It has been revealed that his boyhood nickname was "Have Half" ["Trumpeting Victory in Retreat," Time Australia, 2 December 1991, p. 63].
	It would be a mistake to take this "schizophrenia" too seriously as a diagnosis, as if it corresponded to a pathological condition suffered by Bush "the man" or even collectively by his constituency. Bush's condition was every bit as slippery (multi-functional) as Reagan's. One article diagnoses Bush as a hysteric, a masochist, a transvestite, and an overcompensating macho male, all in the space of three pages, without noticing any contradiction. [Rubenstein 1990:256-58] Which makes perfect sense. As with Reagan, the question of contradiction simply does not arise, at least not on the level of being or meaning. The Presidential question is not "What ails him (us)?"--the obvious answer being "everything you like"--but rather "What does he do by acting that way? Where does it get him (us)?"
	Bush's splitting must be seen in the same way as Reagan's infinite cut, his fracturing to infinity: as an enablement. Reagan's fracturing enabled reconnection, disappearing him into the omnipresence of his varying image. Bush's splitting allowed him to become imperceptible on the home front while reappearing on the war front as principled obliteration. If the Bush-America spirit was embodied by the missiles, it was so most intensely at the moment of impact when the screen went blank and the home-viewers cheered. Blankness was Bush's hallmark of effectiveness on every front. What does our latter-day Commodore Perry do at the climax of his mock-dramatic, pre-reelection campaign trip to open Japanese markets to the West? At an imperial banquet, he collapses on camera into the lap of the Japanese prime minister, vomits, then sinks out of sight to the floor ["Stunned Japanese Offer Sympathy as Some are Struck by Symbolism," New York Times, 9 January 1992, A8].
	Reagan had became immanent to the social field in spite of himself, as a side-effect of an impossible quest for transcendence that left his audio-visual image proliferating endlessly across the country he had tried to elevate to his lofty plane. After leaving office, Reagan made millions of dollars providing photo opportunities for the Japanese imperial family and high-ranking functionaries. Bush rolled at their feet. He just didn't have the right stuff. He had no choice but to dispense with transcendence, to sink into his own self-effacing immanence. Image faint. Getting fainter by the course. Doctors say it had the flu. "I was only trying to get some attention" [ABC evening news, 8 January 1992]. Fade to black.