Old Glory's magic dust didn't stick to Bush's lapels. Try as he might to pledge himself to it, it fell from his shoulders like dandruff. Whenever he drew attention to himself, it was in a way that highlighted his inability to rise above, or even remain seated--to maintain his presence at all. For example, Bush could never garner for himself the kind of political capital Reagan did with second-hand war stories, even though he had a true one to tell. Bush actually was a fighter pilot in World War II. The story he tells is about being shot down. It ends with him floating aimlessly in a little yellow raft thinking wistfully about his family as he waits for rescue. In his hour of danger, a raft away from death, the thought of family did not unify the Bush substance(lessness) with that of the nation, as it had for Reagan reminiscing about his birth; rather, it led him to reflect on "my faith, the separation of church and state."17 Church/state ... mind/body, spirituality/materiality, self/other. This split, which Reagan tried so hard to overcome, was a given for Bush, his "faith." It was his ultimate element, his destiny, it was to Bush what the sea was to his doomed fighter plane. 
	The Bush-body goofs, his voice gaffes. Bush-mind and Bush-body are never completely in harmony, however carefully scripted. He lacks a unifying will. His speaking style is to this day distracted. Despite his Ivy League past, Bush is painfully, embarrassingly, vomitously, down-to-earth. He's an ordinary Joe. The director of ABC's docu-drama of the Gulf War, "Heroes of Desert Storm," said that he asked Bush to appear because the film (which bombed) "was meant to be a salute to  the ordinary people who did extraordinary things" in the war, and he "thought having the president would be a nice touch" [The Arizona Daily Star, 6 October 1991, 4A].
	"One of us." A hero of the ordinary. Floating in the Patriot sea. Immersed in separation, the perceived separation of mind and body, the absence of a strong persona. The inevitability of goof and gaffe engulfing Reagan's hapless successor condemned him to abject immanence in the familiar, imperfect, everyday world. When Bush did manage to rise above, he did it by temporarily reversing the direction of the slide into immanence without, however, transforming it into a climb to transcendence. The colors of the Reagan-American flag ran in all directions. The Gulf War Bush-bomb went air-borne. But it rose only in order to zoom back in, converging explosively with the vanishing point at the center of the militarized home-viewing screen. At which point it became blankly apparent that Bush had missed his own ride, that he was at no time any less earthbound for having fired his body-double missile than he was for piloting a plane.
	Although glory did burst forth in Bush's general vicinity, it did not adhere to his disappearing person, and was of an explosive kind that leaves little trace. Bush's Gulf-War glory was as self-expiring as the blast and accompanying clapping of hands. It did not last him even to the beginning of the reelection campaign. Bush is incapable of accumulating prestige in the way Reagan did. General Schwarzkopf was the Reaganoid glory hog at this trough. It was his body which gave a visual image to military prowess, his voice which expressed the appropriate bluster and sentiment. Bush, for his part, continued to putt. He let Schwarzkopf stand in for him on the stage of glory. The General retired soon after to hefty speaking fees and speculation about political ambitions. It didn't seem to matter to Bush. Schwarzkopf was merely his human proxy. One of many. Time magazine's reelection campaign coverage referred to Bush's propensity for body-doubling in an inadvertantly oxymoronic headline: "Bush Makes it Personal: The President Counters a Rightist Challenge with a Stream of Surrogates" [6 January 1992, p. 48]. It was his inhuman surrogate, the high-tech hardware of war, that summed him up most singularly.