His better half. Nancy would keep Reagan whole ["Mrs. Reagan Defends her Role As the President's Protector," San Francisco Chronicle, 10 June 1988]. 
	But the series of minuses proliferates at a pace with the pluses. Any anti-amputation device is no more than a stop-gap measure. The Reagan era was a theater of bumbling and ill-health punctuated by his prostate gland and polyp-beseiged rectum. Being shot got him one of the highest ratings in the polls he ever achieved.5 The most visible press coverage given him in the months after he left office was for having hand surgery [January 1989], falling off a horse [July 1989], and having water drained from his brain [September 1989]. Even in the best of times, any inadequately planned close-up revealed that his supposedly ageless face looked like it was rotting on its bones, a fact not lost on the manufacturers of a hideous Reagan squeeze doll [copyright 1984, Spitting Image Productions].
	Reagan, like the First Emperor,  manifested his amputational nature by disappearing into his ceremonial residence. His mode of being in the White House mimicked the transcendental nature of the substance of unity he continued to be despite his tendency to lose bits and pieces of himself. His comment about building a Great Wall around the White House was directed at the press corps, which he was likening to invading Asian hordes--bothersome 'lice.' But it could just as well have referred to the ground-to-air missiles and elite combat units ringing the White House to ward off attacks by terrorist lice. Or to his increasing deafness ["Reagan's New Hearing Aid Has a Remote Control," San Francisco Chronicle, 11 February 1988] and the hearing aid he would shut off to avoid reporters' questions (as much a technological cure for hypochondria as a political ploy: "Reagan Feigns Laryngitis to Avoid Query" ran a pre-hearing aid headline, New York Times, 3 March 1985). Or to his overall lack of accessibility to the press--despite his reputation for being a media president, he had fewer press conferences than any president since the advent of radio. ["The Disappearing Presidential News Conference," New York Times, 17 October 1988, A20] Or to his ever-increasing aloofness and lack of engagement in the everyday running of the country ["President 'Strangely Passive,'" The Australian, 10 May 1988; "Memo Suggested 'Inattentive' Reagan Be Removed: Book," Montreal Gazette, 16 September 1988, A10]. Or his tragi-comic propensity to nap during meetings and international crises and his growing inability to distinguish politics from film scripts.6 When the body of unification is not being cut up, it is cut off, separating itself from that which it unifies. 
	Reagan repeatedly drew attention to a structural homology between his body and the body politic ["Reagan's Nose Could Change the Whole Face of the World," International Herald Tribune, 10 August 1987]. Any difficulty he encountered was apt to be expressed in somatic terms. His triumphant first address after his assassination centered on a metaphor linking his recovery to that of the economy ["Reagan Appeals to Congress for His Economic Plan, Saying He Is Recovered but US Isn't," New York Times, 29 April 1981]. Criticism struck him physically, with hysterical regularity if not anatomical accuracy ["Reagan Lashes Out: 'There Is Bitter Bile in My Throat,'" Time, 8 December 1986, cover]. 
	A consequence of the structural homology between the body of the unifier and the body politic it unifies is that the country sets up a defensive self-other boundary analogous to the skin. Any uncooperative element appears in one of two ways: as a rival body attacking boldly from without, threatening to pierce the body's protective shield; or as a disease that slips in through the pores to enter the country's bloodstream and sap its strength from within. The military-industrial complex under Reagan strove to produce a technological skin. Star Wars was to be a skin prosthesis made of lasers.
	The concept of subversion so central to Reagan's thinking acts as a kind of somatic threat converter. Through subversion, the rival body that attacks from without becomes a disease that saps from within. Perhaps it's not Nancy on the other side of the door. Maybe it's a communist, or an illegal immigrant who got in through the 'back yard.' Reagan droned an unending litany of modern-day lice. Communists, illegal immigrants, drug users, gays, feminists, '60s die-hards, computer hackers, and welfare cheats. Reagan lice came in an astounding variety of forms. But their dominant mode was less parasitic than viral. It was the age of AIDS.
	National unity oscillates between paranoia and hypochondria. It is in any case a sickness. The hypochondria is written into the paradox of the substance of unity described earlier. A seamless whole has to have parts, otherwise it would have nothing to totalize; but it cannot have them, otherwise it would not be a seamless whole. The whole is continually undermined by its parts. The body politic is always under attack by its own organs in one form or another. That is why it has such a pronounced tendency to want to cut them off.