1. Singular and Multiple. The State-form is not a form at all. It is an abstract process: a drive to "unity." To the extent that empirical States concretize that drive, they are one and the same. Every State is the State. The State does not evolve, nor even have an origin. It arrives, like fate, in a single stroke and fully formed, from a place that cannot be located. Over and over again. For "unity" is by nature unactualizable. The Emperor's conundrum: if the Great Unifier unifies the empire, is he a part of his own whole? If he is, then the empire is not unified: it is divisible into a subject and an object of unification. If he isn't, then the unity is not an empire: it is sovereignless. Any drive to unity is necessarily a drive to dominion, and necessarily fails. There is always a remainder and an excess of power: an object of regimentation that escapes, a subject of regimentation that recedes. If the State-form cannot be whole, it cannot be. It does not abide, it only arrives. Again: when it arrives, it is not the same, as always. It is multiple by nature. To the extent that actual states succeed in concretizing the drive to unity, they differ from themselves and from each other. The invariant lack of self-sameness inherent in the State-form is often expressed as a split body (dismemberment: in particular, amputation and decapitation) and as a split between body and mind (disappearance: the invisibility of the soul; lack of will). Collective attempts to overcome this continual self-differing focus on the body of the ruler as exemplary site for the incarnation of the State Idea.
2. Immanent and Transcendent. Another way of putting the Emperor's conundrum is to say that the whole is either apart from or a part of that which it unifies: transcendent or immanent. A drive to unity is by design apart from what it unifies, and by default a part of it--both by nature. The State-form attempts to elevate the world to a level equal to its unifying abstraction, but in order to do so it must concretize itself enough to move brute matter. Every whole is immanent in its transcendence. Transcendence is nothing other than a particular mode of becoming-immanent to matter. 
	We charted three drives to unity, three becomings-immanent. Two were subsumed by a proper name--"Qin Shih Huang-di," "Reagan"--the third by an impersonal apparatus--the Bush-thing. The first two we called heteronymic, the third apparatic. The becomings-immanent subsumed first and foremost by a name seized upon markers of excess as a way of conjuring away the impossibility of transcendence. They were obsessed with the body, whose potential for death and dismemberment is a material reminder of the failure awaiting. The tension between excess and the body worked into a frenzy involving spectacular disappearances, in the first case through a mythic quest for the other in the doubled self (the monster) and in the second case on a televised celebration of the fragmented self in the other (mass media technology)--ways of enacting the multiplicity unseen. The becoming-immanent subsumed first and foremost by an impersonal apparatus was haunted by its own premonitory signs of failure. It seized upon these, accepting the role of remainder. It melted to the point of imperceptibility on one screen apparatus only to reappear explosively on another. "Reagan" and the "First Emperor" played out the Emperor's conundrum by spinning off series of doubles and fracturings. The Bush-thing favored straddling a single split, enabling a decisive blankness where once was a proliferation of meaning and image. Each of these kinds of becoming-immanent, of course, involve names and apparatuses, myth and celebration, doubles, fractures, and splits, and many other things besides: an infinity of components. It is a question of composition, of how the components hold together. Determination is extrinsic: it is in interrelatedness.
	There is at least one other kind of becoming-immanent (and probably many more): what we called nomadic desire. The difference between the becomings-immanent of the State Idea and the becomings-immanent of nomadic desire is not that between reason and unreason, or between constancy and passion. All becomings-immanent are desires, in the sense of tendings toward: they are drives or vectorial dynamisms inhabiting the in-between of bodies, images, ideas, and words, and many other things besides. The difference is that the State idea becomes-immanent in the service of unity, whereas nomadic desire openly embraces that singular multiplicity its State nemesis admits only under duress, like a dirty secret.