4. Alive and Unliving. The State-serving apparatus is the despotic expression of the impersonality of matter: the ordering voice of the "faceless" bureaucracy, the commanding might of the smart bomb's eyeless sight. The apparatus is matter that has been regimented as part of a becoming-immanent in the territory of the functions of the ruler, but which resists personification, in other words effective subsumption by a proper name. It is the inhumanity of the State, that which instrumentalizes State unity. Acting as the ruler's right hand without ceasing to be inorganic, the apparatus is an insistent remainder (excess) of absolute immanence. It is what the becoming-immanent of the ruler cannot entirely incorporate, but without which it cannot function. The ruler cannot act over a distance without the apparatus. Without it, his rule would not be the measure of the social field. 
	Call this excessive remainder of absolute immanence force. Force is not material in the sense of being a determinate thing. And it is not necessarily negative, or prohibitive. In fact, its prohibitive mode is a special case, an exception to prove the rule, which is creative--productive of difference. For force is relational, it is the very stuff of relationality: non-coincidence, differential, vector, less a thing than matter and energy at their point of indiscernability.2 Perpetual motion: as soon as a force exerts itself it has become other than it is, because its exertion alters the relationality it was. Not only is force not determinate, it is not determinable: it is the very movement of determination. It is becoming. No ruler rules without making his person coincide with selected forces gathered into an apparatus. But force is becoming, unruly. The ruler becomes-immanent in the territory to the extent that he alienates himself in an inorganic life he cannot hope entirely to control.3 The organic model evoked directly or indirectly by every image of State unity functions only to the extent that it is a becoming-inorganic: yet another expression of the Emperor's conundrum. He effectively commands only to the degree to which he unlives his and others' lives.
	The State Idea is always arriving, never abiding. In itself, it is outside time. It is eternal (or nonexistent, take your pick again). History lies in the alienation of the State Idea from itself: the apparatus is the history of the State. When we argued against evolutionary theories of social development, we said that the State and its transformations always arrived from outside, which we described as liminal, the in-between. That relational outside is the in-itself of force. The apparatus is an interiorization of force, its capture (regimentation, channelization) in the name of unity. Any capture leaves traces. As Foucault has shown, it is possible to use those traces to chart "genealogies" of institutions. It is possible to write history, but only if rupture is given precedence over continuity. 
	The history of the State is the story of its progressive separation from itself through a proliferation and increasing differentiation of the apparatus. The only linearity in State history is this steady intensification of the becoming-immanent of the lost sovereign, the relentless "endocolonization" of the earth by materialized pre- and exhuman functions.4 The First Emperor had a restricted number of apparatuses at his disposal: the army, the mutual-spying machine, agriculture, hydraulics and other public works, all under the control of an overarching bureaucracy. Reagan had variations on all of these, plus many more. He made masterful use of spy apparatuses, using intelligence connections to make the famous pre-election arms-for-hostages deal that won him the presidency by thwarting a Carter "October surprise." Once in office, he could not have "healed the wounds of Vietnam" and prepared the nation for the infinite dissemination of his glorious image without ample support from such domestic apparatuses as the mass media and the police machine he mobilized for the "war" on drugs.
	Two of the "First Emperor" apparatuses that have been hyperdeveloped under late capitalism are the army and the mutual-spying machine. Variations on each abound. Both are being technologized, relegating human perception and judgment step-by-step to the periphery of integrated circuits acting more and more automatically: poll responses relayed into computer analysis relayed into the mass media; satellite spy images relayed into computer analysis relayed into missile guidance systems. As human mental and perceptual functions are supplemented or even supplanted by technological translations of them, the leader and his subjects become increasingly peripheral to their own activities. The apparatus is expelling them. The human is less and less central, occupying instead the end-points of autonomic circuits: the human gives the poll response, and receives the results in the next day's paper; a human presses a button and a "soft target" blows up. It is the humans who are at the extremities of the apparatus, rather than the apparatus serving as the right hand of the exemplary human. Each autonomic circuit peripheralizes the human only in order to connect through that human end-point with itself, initiating its next operation cycle: the publicized poll results feed back into the next opinion poll, making or breaking a political career; satellite-gathered information on missile hits and misses feed back into the next push of the button and the next "soft target" blows. The space of human intervention is reduced to the minimum, to instant reflex action: a canned answer to a prepackaged question; a programmed gesture urgently responding to incoming information. 
	The apparatus not only connects with itself at its human extremities; at those same points one autonomic circuit connects with another in a kind of asexual apparatic coupling: the results of successive polls are relayed into the military apparatus and launch the next war.
	The human is expelled from the apparatus only to be incorporated all the more fully into it, as a relay point in increasingly integrated autonomic systems. Expelled as commander to be integrated as connector, the human is transformed by its own works from a brain legislating life to a ligament bindng machine cycles. Human rule ceases to be the measure of the universe as the human is adjoined to machinic processes capable of operating on scales infinitely smaller or larger than any single human being can comprehend or control: from despotic overcoding to cosmic adjunction. The human organism has been most successfully subsumed not in the overarching name of global unification, but by forms of inorganic life that can tap into cosmic energies, and limit human participation to local adjacency to them.5 Fittingly, the most advanced and publically appreciated apparatus of this kind is aimed at obliterating the human being it "services": the smart missile. Its nuclear kin marked the first recognized irruption in history of the exhuman apparatus. Nuclear weapons systems are a command-function materialization that descends into the infinitely small in order to release the infinitely large, in fatal form. The microchip is the "productive," or seductive-inductive, version of the same movement. As it continues its passage to infinity on the side of the small, it is inventing perception- and judgment-functions that may be released into the autonomic environment to be incorporated into infinitely expandable, but in principle sustainable, large-scale exhuman apparatuses (fuzzy logic, silicon neurons, virtual reality).6 Although the late capitalist State multiplies and intensifies army and spy machines, its trademark apparatuses are those specializing in perception- and judgment-functions applicable to civilian use as well: from the mass media to interactive media and associated technologies. It is not beyond the realm of possibility that the State's multiplication and intensification of these machines may augur its own demise.
	If the history of the State is the endocolonization of the earth by the apparatus, that history may be coming to an end as exhuman functions proliferate-differentiate in every domain. Although Bush hasn't brought his thing back home yet in a big way, his repeated promise to mobilize the army to fight the "war" against drugs alongside already highly techo-militarized police forces shows that there are strong pressures to expand even the most unapologetic command apparatuses on the domestic front. If army, police, spy machines and their derivatives continue to automate and interlink, joining already interconnecting apparatuses such as marketing research, "information economy" financial circuits of all kinds, and the mass media, forming a horizontal net of increasingly complex autonomic response capabilities, the point will be reached when the vertical dimension proper to the State's overarching drive to unity becomes superfluous. This would not, however, mean an end to power. Power is captured force, apparatically applied. The importance of despotic command--the function proper to the State-form--would recede in favor of posthuman social control. While it would mark the end of human sovereignty, it would not be the end of power; it would be a new form of power, perhaps more effective than any yet seen. What are currently State apparatuses might retain a key role, acting collectively as something approaching a central processing unit, a machinic node coordinating capitalized autonomic processes, adjusting them to one another, mediating conflicts, maximizing profit. But this would be an immanent formation, a coordinator of heterogeneous horizontal movements on the plane of capital, rather than a structuring unity projecting its image onto the social field from a higher plane all its own.7 It would not be a State in our sense. The wave of social and economic deregulation sweeping the Western nation-states since the early 1980s coupled with the development of transnational trade zones in the 1990s (the European Community, the North American Free Trade Zone, the Yen bloc, and the Commonwealth of Independent States replacing the old Soviet Union) represent strong tendencies in this direction. 
	Then again, all that may never happen. In fact the opposite could well be the case: the new mania of State formation convulsing the world could be the State's last desperate gasp, or yet another rebirth. It would seem that the United States faces several choices: follow the Bush-thing as it jogs farther and farther into the proliferating-differentiating apparatus and away from the State as we have known it; or rehumanize. Rehumanization would consist in forcing the population, the territory, and the executive apparatus back into a content-laden homology with the body of the leader, resubsuming the "spirit" of the nation under the proud name of organic unity. This way leads back to the liberal "representative" democracy of the 1960s and 1970s, on to a "Reagan" third term, or toward the invention of an all-American fascism (with the likes of Jesse Helms and David Duke in the vanguard), depending on how vigorously the homology is forced. Unsavory options all. Where the option of following the apparatus may lead is a complete unknown.