5. Masculine, Feminine, and Neuter. We noted a symbiosis between the masculine gender and the State-form. Despotism itself seemed best defined as privileging of maleness in collective symbolization and the preeminence of the masculine voice in collective ideation. We used the term symbiosis, and referred to the masculinity of the despot as a kind of home base to which his imagings and discourse, his vocal and visual bodily residues, return more often than not. These were ways of saying that the men and despotism go together almost without exception, that they belong with and to each other, but that this is more a complicity than the result of a shared essence: the relation between men and despotism is extrinsically determined. In other words, it is not a destiny. Bush's self-neutering in technology attests to that.
	Or does it? How can we ignore the phallic resonance of the "short bursts of mute projectile motion" that make the Bush-thing most at one with himself? We can't. No matter how materialized, how inorganic, how neuter the Bush-thing is, it is still at least residually masculine, if only on one side of the split, on another screen belonging to a different apparatus than the missile (the mass media). And in the missile itself, it could be argued that masculinity is much more than residual. The command-function materialized so expertly in the missile is a splitting image of the idea of unity--and it is precisely the drive to unity that holds men and despotism together. The dynamic of unity is the playing out of their belonging together, it is their symbiosis, their interrelatedness, their combined force. The Bush-thing can be seen as masculinity's latest ruse: shed the despotic body as a strategy for preserving its driving Idea. Inorganic masculinity: the despot's last laugh.
	Any counterstrategy to the Bush-thing based on a becoming-woman would short-circuit. The feminine is as much a part of the masculine system as the neuter. None of these terms have any meaning apart from the others. The masculine is the historically predominant human expression of the excess of transcendence (the phallus). The feminine is the historically predominant human expression of the remainder of immanence (castration). The neuter is the reversal point or the vanishing point of human transcendence and immanence: it is the point toward which the irresolvable dialectic of transcendence and immanence set in motion by the drive to unity leads, as if to its solution. But it is not the solution, only the human point of contradiction. If masculinity is the phallus, and femininity is castration, then the neuter is the cut of the knife, the blast of the missile. Masculine, feminine, and neuter are all part of the same system: the personified organism. If a body precipitates toward one of these terms, it inevitably carries one or both of the others with it, eventually rebecoming what it left, or being assailed by it, haunted by it at every turn. As long as there is personification and organism, there will be gender, and where there is gender, there is masculinity, and where there is masculinity, there is almost certainly a despotic body ready for launch. A further indication that the belonging-together of men and despotism is symbiotic rather than essential is the fact that a biologically female body can sometimes serve as the launch site. The Kuwaitis are building a museum for Margaret Thatcher--European "Reagan" turned tireless Bush-thing champion--to immortalize her pro-war activism.
	The personified organism, the human, is always again a creature of the State. Gender-based subjectivity (Oedipus in its many incarnations) is a miniaturization, to fit the contours of the human body, of the transcendence-immanence dialectic constituting the State. 
	We have argued against privileging phallic interpretations of every cut, split, and fracture. That is because excess, remainder, and contradiction can be and are imaged in many other ways than by gender. Every level in the State system of homologies has its own way of imaging the immanence-transcendence dialectic. Insisting on reducing them to the phallus robs them of their specificity. The disappearing Emperor is a phallus, but he is also an emperor. The decapitated head is a phallus, but one that formerly wore a hat. Once again, it is less a question of is than of composition, of how a multiplicity of components hold together while retaining their singularity and separate histories.
	If the personified organism is a creature of the State, and the State forever arrives and returns to a transhistorical place that cannot be located, then so does gender. Gender is an imaging and discourse system, a system of symbolizations and ideations driven by a dynamic that is in itself utterly impersonal, inorganic. The "body without an image" is an oxymoron expressing this inherence of the impersonal and inorganic in the human. "Virtual kinetic geography" is another term for it, one playing on a different level of the State system of homologies, that of the territory. The Bush-thing's privileging of the neuter, alongside of if not at the expense of the masculine, indicates that the body-State system is returning more intensely than ever to the body without an image, approaching ever closer to the inherence of the material, to absolute immanence. It cannot go any further without flipping over into a different dynamic altogether, in which the impersonal and the inorganic completely subsume the human. In the preceding section, we speculated about one such dynamic, assuming a radicalization of transnational capitalism whereby profit eclipsed unity once and for all as the motor of social control. What is important in the present context is that the point of reversal--where the State (in this case, capital-technocratic) shades into the nomadic extreme (the first to inhabit a primarily technological smooth space)--also marks the limit of gender, patriarchy, all fixed hierarchy. That limit is less the neuter than the perpetual underside of the masculine, feminine, and neuter together, that from which they arise and into which they subside, not yet and again. Like the State, it ever arrives. But never before like this. The human is haunted by the masculine, which is possessed of the despot. But the despot is possessed of the body without an image, beckoned by it with growing insistence toward a non-place where no power abides. It is in the same movement that humanity passes to the limit of its own subjection, glimpses a new servitude, and is beckoned by its liberation.