6. Force and Potential. If apparatuses operate by capturing or interiorizing force, and if the relational outside is the in-itself of force, then the apparatus, in interiorizing force, alienates force from itself. Force = unbounded relationality = infinite connectability = pure potential: the capture of force is the reduction of potential. There is a reciprocal history to the State's progressive separation from itself through a proliferation and increasing differentiation of the apparatus: an equally complex separation of force from potential. What we called power. The actions of the State foster the crystalization of power, what Lord Shang praised as the "elimination of strength": regimentation, channelization, induction. Walls and roads, functionalized things and allegedly harmonious movement of bodies, utility and organism: these are power phenomena, left-overs of force, post-capture. They are remainders of unspent potential, traces of unknown excess, hieroglyphs of an unreadable history of rupture shadowing, shattering the continuities of State-crystalized powers, whose linearized histories they also write, in the same words, different language.8
	If the interiorization of force reached the limit of endocolonization, the point at which the State flips over into its own underside, if it spun out into a smooth, unbounded space of exterioriy, if it actualized immanence in horizontal networks of increasingly complex interrelation . . . Could it not be made an occasion to sidestep power rather than resubmitting to it in a new way? Could the demise of the despot be taken as an opportunity to retranslate force into potential?
* * *
7. Anti-State. We can't offer any conclusions, in the sense of final solutions. Those we leave to men of State. We can only offer a desire, counter to theirs. We can only incant: don't turn back. Call the Bush-thing's bluff. Take the drive to unity out of the missile, and the missile out of the apparatus. Do not jog. Take the remnants of self out of machinic possession. Refind "one's" strength. Return force to potential, remainder to excess, history to its underside. As the failure of Enlightenment has shown, liberation is never of the human, it is only ever from it. Invoke the body without an image in a postgender, posthuman, sovereignless world--even in the uncertainty of where it will take us. One thing is certain: we won't have "Reagan" to reassassinate anymore.