deepest bouts  of despair. Yet this optimism fueled  by various neuroscientific research initiatives is tempered by a harrowing contradiction: that  the  epoch  of neuroplasticity is the same epoch  that  has witnessed the outbreak of a global depression epidemic. What  institutionally sanctioned therapies fail to  critically engage with,  is the political  operation of how  the brain  becomes  subject.  Perhaps unconsciously,  or  perhaps  out   of  willfull   blindness,  the   dominant  medical strategies in place  for treating depression uncritically lend  themselves to the neoliberal free marketeering of life – the transformation of life into capital.  They each  assist  this  transformation by creating brain  chemistries or thought patterns that facilitate  the maintenance, or even enhancement, of one’s “human capital.” It is precisely through this becoming subject of the brain  to assume its role as capital that  the plastic  paradox I would like to foreground here  (a politicized variant of the   one   proposed  by   Norman  Doidge)  presents  itself   [5]:  that   despite  its therapeutic promise, there  is nothing inherent to neuroplasticity which  prevents the production of subjectivity in line with  affective  suffering. After all, neoliberal power  works   immanently  to   the   brain,   so   that   (neuro)plastic  qualities  of movement, modulation, transformation, or restructuring cannot in and  of themselves be  valourized  for  their   therapeutic value,   since  there   is  nothing preventing power from  enticing these  changes to serve  its own  interests, to the detriment of psychic and social life. [6] The subsumption of mental health services to the demands of the market (what  Josep Rafanelli  I Orra  calls “therapeutic capitalism”) may not sound all that bad. After all, it is still “therapeutic.” But when analyzing therapeutic capitalism’s subjectifying apparatuses, Christian Marazzi’s reminder rings as pertinently as ever: “If we want  to produce capital  through life, we need  to remember how little life is worth in the eyes of power” (150).