to the mobile gaze.5 Either way, there was a lived experience of a choreo- graphic  proposition.
The choreographic object activates experimentation and play by bring- ing together the pastness of experience (the object as we know it) and its futurity (the object-ecology in its novel unfolding). When an object no longer seems to be quite what you thought it was, and the you you thought you were begins to collectively individuate, and the experience of time no longer feels as linear, it’s because the event is beginning to take over. No longer as concerned with your “self,” you are now experiencing the potential of the future mixed with the resonance of the past: a futurity of pastness in the present. Event-time.
This experience is specious: it takes us into the time-slip of the event. This speciousness has a quality of fabulation: it enervates us toward the doubleness of time and incites us to invent with time.6 Choreographic ob- jects draw us into this speciousness by infiltrating our experience with the verge of this doubling of time on itself. They also alert us to the processu- ality of objects. For objects are, like bodyings, more force than form. They are not preorchestrated constellations ready to be taken up into proces-
sual experience. They are themselves processes, lures: edgings, tendings, shadowings. They are, as Lygia Clark well knew, relational.7 If these were merely stable objects inhabiting already-constituted space, they wouldn’t have such a hold on us. Objects exist in the between of a proposition and its eventness, inciting co-constellations of movement-moving.
In the between of eventness there is a strange schism, a disjunction be- tween experience and the consciousness of experience. What we experience as now is already being infested with a new “now,” this new now already slightly altering the experience of the last experience of now. Choreographic objects draw out this paradox of the linearity of measured time versus the duration of experiential time. “The practically cognized present is no knife- edge, but a saddle-back, with a certain breadth of its own on which we sit perched, and from which we look in two directions into time” (James 1890, 609). The time-slip the choreographic object makes felt calls forth the addi- tive and the subtractive aspect of experience such that the time of the event is experienced as more than what was before even as it is less than what it could have been. Future and past entwined in a fabulous experience of the not-quite-now. In this strange time-loop, what is lived is less the encounter with space pre-formed or objects preexistent than a direct experience of relation.