Forsythe is more interested in the folding of space than the form-taking of bodies (Forsythe qtd. in Forsythe and Sigmund 2000). His choreographic propositions begin with this folding, activating a creative tension between the virtual extensity of a durational rhythm and the actual intensity of a moving in-time. From creating environmental conditions for performance to creating propositions for relational movement, Forsythe’s work remains an activity that folds forward into a complex ecological nexus. As a choreog- rapher of missiles of movement, Forsythe’s work thus makes felt the “what else” of choreography—its capacity to craft an associated milieu of relation that extends far beyond the stage. What else is an associated milieu but a force-field for the crafting of the as yet unthought where the micropercep- tual and the micropolitical meet to create new movements in the making? “You don’t need a choreographer to dance” (Forsythe qtd. in Forsythe and Sigmund 2001). What you need is a choreographic proposition. Propo- sitions are ontogenetic: they emerge as the germ of the occasion and persist on the nexus of experience to take hold once more through new occasions of experience. Forsythe’s choreographic objects are propositions in just this
sense.
Take Scattered Crowd (2002; see figure 13).9 This choreographic object involves four thousand white balloons suspended in a wash of sound. The balloons themselves are not the proposition. Scattered Crowd is about moving-through-quality—whiteness, airiness, lightness—such that the co-constituting spacetime of experience becomes a moving-with: relational environment invites relational movement creates ecology of event. When the balloons float in a relatively small space, this movement quality is gen- erated by an instruction to move through the space without touching the balloons. A choreography of uneasy closeness, a choreography of sensual proximity. A scenario: a crowd-movement, the balloons strangely still in a field of tentative moving bodies alert to one another. In another context, when the room is much larger and the balloons more numerous, the in- struction might be to create space with the balloons without tangling their strings. A scenario: space moving, bodies in co-composition with strings, balloons bobbing in a time of a collective slithering.
The work depends on how it comes to collective iteration. In Scattered Crowd, how the room’s volume evolves is synonymous with the quality of event-time created in the moving. The changing of the affective tone of spacetime is not willed by individual participants. It happens in a relational becoming: the room moves the participants to alter the composition of the event’s unfolding in experiential time. Here we see precision of proposition meeting unpredictability of event. To achieve a singularity of experience, the enabling constraints immanent to the proposition have to be both con- cise and open-ended. When the work works and Scattered Crowd collectivizes around the proposition, the event becomes atmospheric, more ecological than human- or object-oriented, moved in all of its cellular complexity.
Scattered Crowd is an indoor weather system. Volumes of air in the moving move an environmentality itself in the making. A shift in ground results, a shift in the very idea of what collective movement can feel like when it be- comes a lived practice of attunement. Movement as weather exceeds the ob- jects, the subjects in its midst. Choreographic object: a proposition for the “what else” of choreographic thought, a proposition that moves the milieu, the associated milieu of relation.