in creating these objects,” the team explains, “is to engage a broad public, explore cross-disciplinary research, and spur creative discovery for special- ists and non-specialists alike.”1
As demonstrated by Forsythe’s work on choreographic objects, the what else of the choreographic can be activated in an infinity of constellations. From an eddy to a flock of Canada geese to movement propositions such as Scattered Crowd to the constellation of a social movement, the what else of choreography emphasizes that choreography is a proposition not for the body itself but for the relational force of movement-moving in an ecology of life-living. In this chapter, I propose the concept of “mobile architectures” as another way of conceiving the choreographic when it becomes an event not for the individual body but for the ontogenetic architecting of environ- ments in the moving.
A mobile architecture is one way of naming the event of choreography’s self-generative force. It is what can be felt when the choreographed event generates a more-than that touches on its propositional nature. A mobile architecture is the direct experience of the more-than in its field effect. It is
“what makes a work stand on its own”—what makes a work work. Deleuze and Guattari write:
The artist creates blocs of percepts and affects, but the only law of cre- ation is that the compound must stand on its own [doit tenir tout seul ]. The artist’s greatest difficulty is to make it stand up on its own. Sometimes this requires what is, from the viewpoint of an implicit model, from the view- point of lived perceptions and affections, great geometrical improba- bility, physical imperfection, and organic abnormality. But these sublime errors accede to the necessity of art if they are internal means of standing up (or sitting or lying). . . . On the other hand, many works that claim to be art do not stand up for an instant. Standing up alone does not mean having a top and a bottom or being upright (for even houses are drunk and askew); it is only the act by which the compound of created sensa- tions is preserved in itself—a monument, but one that may be contained in a few marks or a few lines, like a poem by Emily Dickinson. (1994, 164–65; translation modified)
The question of what makes a work work, it seems to me, is the question of how an artwork evolves to exceed its form, to create from its force-of- form a more-than that can be felt, if not easily described. With the concept of mobile architecture, I am suggesting that a choreographic work “stands up” when human movement evolves to include its associated milieu such that the milieu’s ecologies of relation themselves can be felt. This happens when the choreographic begins to shift toward a wider fielding of move- ment where spacetime itself begins to vibrate with movement expression. From choreographic stagecraft there evolves a sensation that the dancing is happening with and across bodies rather than on them. Bodies dance in an ecology of movement expression that in turn dances them.
Choreography becomes a field for movement expression when the body becomes an intensive participant with the evolving milieu rather than simply the instigator of the action. This occurs when the choreographic begins to make felt the coming-into-eventness of the field of relation, which hap- pens when the bodies begin to move the relation, dancing in concert with movement-moving, with space-timing. When the field of relation itself be- comes mobile, what begins to erupt from its intensive spatialization of time is an architecting of mobility, a mobile architecture that does not stabilize form but extracts from form the intensive traces of its reemergence as field
effect. A mobile architecture is less a structure than an agile surfacing that makes felt the force of incipient form: it is, as Deleuze and Guattari might say, a bloc of movement sensation—when you experience it you can’t quite say where it began or ended, but you can recognize it as a rare example of a work outdoing itself. The work continues to move you beyond its staged it- eration—you can’t say exactly why but it haunts you, it occupies you, evolv- ing beyond its form-taking to create resonances that incite you to want to experience it again. It’s not the form of the work that stays with you, it’s the how of its capacity to dislodge the you that you thought you were. It’s the how of the work’s capacity to shift the ground that moves you, from tech- nique to technicity. Mobile architectures are one way of addressing what choreography can do when this shift occurs. I call them architectures only because there is a sense that something fleetingly collective has taken form, almost a structure but not quite. Or: that there has been a collective orches- tration for a certain kind of constructing. The paradox of mobile architec- tures: the work works when the constructing is felt not as a form in itself, but as the force of form—when the form or the structure is always already destructuring.
Mobile architectures have the potential to surface in an infinity of ways across various movement practices, yet they are rare to behold. This chap- ter suggests that One Flat Thing, reproduced (2000) is one such instance. The strength of the Synchronous Objects platform, it seems to me, is that through its foregrounding of the cueing/aligning/counterpoint in One Flat Thing, reproduced, it makes visible how the “what else” of the choreographic can unfold, making felt the way movement moves across multiphased sur- facings of experience to create a mobile architecture in the making.
Forsythe describes One Flat Thing, reproduced as a “baroque machinery,” de- fining the baroque as “the apogee of counterpoint.” For Forsythe, counter- point refers to “a field of action in which the intermittent and irregular coincidence of attributes between organizational elements produces an ordered interplay.”2 Counterpoint is not a mimicry of positions. It is a folding-through of points of inflection. These points of inflection are less positions than swerves in the movement. Counterpoint catches these ten- dencies in the making and folds through them, fashioning the beginnings of a distributed relational field. This field in turn folds through coming counterpoints, the dance increasingly dancing itself. This, in Forsythe’s terms, is a baroque machinery, a machine for creating intensive folds of movement  continuously  moving-through  but  ultimately  escaping  posi-
tion. Deleuze writes: “The Baroque refers not to an essence but rather to an operative function, to a trait [trait]. It is always making folds. It does not invent the fold: there are folds from the East, Greek folds, Roman, Roman- esque, Gothic, Classical. . . . Yet the Baroque twists and turns its folds, pushing them to infinity, fold over fold, fold after fold. The Baroque trait is the fold that goes to infinity” (1993, 3; translation modified). One Flat Thing, reproduced is baroque in its emphasis on counterpoint’s capacity to create tendencies for aligning and cueing that create folds, not just bodies folding but spacetime folding.
Counterpoint is visualized in two ways on the Synchronous Objects plat- form. It is explicitly foregrounded in the “object” called “The Dance,” which clearly demarcates the system of cues and alignments in One Flat Thing, repro- duced. Here, you find a movement score that demonstrates how the danced movements engage with and respond to one another. Simultaneously, counterpoint is offered up as a transversal mechanism for experiencing the “what else” of this particular dance through the creation of a series of other “objects.” These “synchronous objects” are conceived less as objects than as objectiles: temporary delimitations of activity in germ. They are visualizable opportunities on the platform for fielding the choreographic experience: graphs (Statistical Counterpoint), architectural animations (the Data Fan, the Furniture System), and tools (the Cue Visualizer, the Cue Abstraction Tool). Emphasizing the objects’ generative potential—both for visualizing One Flat Thing, reproduced ’s architecting of potential and for use in the cre- ation of new work, Norah Zuniga Shaw writes: “Because we focused on the dance as a choreographic resource—rather than scoring it for the purposes of preservation—we were empowered to take this rigorous process of data collection into new creative spaces . . . to generate new possibilities for on- going creativity and research, both in the studio and in the lab.”3
The Synchronous Objects project is replete with what Forsythe calls “choreographic thinking.”4 Choreographic thinking is the activation, in the moving, of a movement of thought. It expresses itself not in language per se but as the pulses across embodiments and rhythms, the durations and spatializations that create a “contrapuntal composition of complex re- lationships, patterns, and trends.”5 This contrapuntal force is active not strictly in the mind or in the body but across a bodying-with that activates spacetimes of composition. “The biggest difficulty . . . is not consciously shaping your body, it is actually letting your body fold . . . to develop a more reactive and many-timed body as opposed to a shaped body.”6 What stands
out in One Flat Thing, reproduced is not the shape of this or that individual body but the velocity with which an emergent field appears in contrapuntal align- ment with thought in the doing. Thought in the doing is a movement in the feeling. This is not thought abstracted from movement. It is thought in move- ment, activated not solely in the body, but across the machinery itself—in the folds of the evolving architecture.