The Dance * One Flat Thing, reproduced is a volumetrics in the structuring. It is a force that moves the choreographic surface into a multidimensionality that alters the very  notion  of  surface-as-ground,  intercalating  movement and volume into an architectural surfacing, architectural because  it  com- poses with space in complex durations of experience.
To appreciate the intensive passage from choreographed stage-space to mobile architecture in One Flat Thing, reproduced, you have to think the cho- reography as the setting into place of future iterations of complex move- ment propositions active in a collective individuation of spacetimes of ex- perience. Look at the tables moving to the front of the cavernous space and see them as their own incipient movement configurations. See the tables pushing the dancers as much as the dancers pushing them. Note that the choreography is already distributed, intensively fielding body-object re- compositions. See the topological choreographic surface of the dance as co-constitutive of past-future movement events cueing to create a collective individuation for the deformation of the same yet divergent multidimen- sional supple surface. See One Flat Thing, reproduced less as a stable table- configuration with mobile dancers than as a field-surface of mobility, re- plete with different velocities, including those of the objects. Note that the objects are always already morphing into propositions for movement ex- perimentation. Note that the tables are dancing, reconfiguring, moving movement as it “persons.” See the choreographic environment or stage- space not as a floor holding objects in place but as a dimensionalizing mo- bile surface moving tabled bodies, a folding event-space calling forth series of dephasings inflecting space, extracting figures, for the event of architect- ing mobility.
Forsythe’s choreography is replete with actual and virtual cues. He de- fines the cue as “an aural or visual signal that triggers an event.” Cues do “person,” as Arakawa and Gins might say, but they need not move through an individual body to have effect. The cue is an enabling constraint for struc- tured improvisation opening onto the collective individuation not of an
individual movement but of the body of the dance as a whole—what Ara- kawa and Gins would call an architectural body. More than personing, cues move the surface of the choreographic field, opening it to the complexity of infra-alignments and cues not taken. “When you stop, create silence. Do not stop individually,” Forsythe warns.7 To move is to move as a collective. As one dancer explains, “You get to know other people’s choreography so that if you miss a cue, you move on to your next sequence, or you look at someone else waiting for that same cue and follow them.”8 Cues transform the movement of the collective into a collective individuation, making felt the relational weave of the dancing surface as it unfolds.
Too often, cues and primes are associated with a stable notion of recall. In Forsythe’s One Flat Thing, reproduced, despite the emphasis of timed cue- ings and alignings associated with specific dancing bodies, there is no such simplistic notion of a repetition of the already-formed. The “reproduced” of One Flat Thing, reproduced connotes the repetition with a difference that is at the heart of each of Forsythe’s stage-based choreographies. The cue func- tions not as a simple tool for the memory of a rehearsed past, but as a call toward the future. Responding to cue is at once realigning and priming to future   realignments.
Think of the event of cooking. You are standing at the sink, washing the lettuce, while your partner reaches into the refrigerator to get the cucum- bers, reaching back at the same time to turn off the stove. With one hand, she gives you the cucumber and despite the fact that you move across to reach for the grater at the same moment as she moves to pick up a fork, you somehow do not bump into each other. It’s not just that you’ve cooked together hundreds of times. It’s that the cueing is continuously rejigging the now of movement-moving. You are both dancing the interval of the de- cisions as they realign your cooking bodies.
Moving through cue is landing decision. This is not a decision-from- without. As suggested in chapter 4, decision’s cut is the more than human force that repositions the field in the event of an occasion taking form: de- cision is how experience singles itself out as this or that. In the cut of deci- sion, we know not the cue as such but only the nextness of its result: move- ment aligning. This nextness of movement-moving recalibrates the cueing bodies even as it recomposes the environment, event-fully poising the event for future priming. In this priming, the event is not poised for the repetition of the same. It is poised for difference. As Massumi warns: “If the cue were merely recognized, and the action triggered a simple repetition, its func-
tioning would be downright maladaptive” (Massumi, 2011c, 71). Think of cooking together in a different kitchen and imagine the mess!
As the cue primes the choreographic surface for the event of difference, it is setting up the conditions for event-time. Event-time is the time of de- cision, the time of the cut that dephases the field toward transductive re- composition. Cues make event-time felt by subverting linear clock-time. With every cue-alignment constellation comes the uncanny meeting of the memorial in the futuristic, the time-slip of a loop where “the present is tightly woven out of a dynamic line of pastness energetically entwined with a thread of futurity” (Massumi, 2011c, 71).
Event-time is durationally multiphased. Every response to cue activates the future as it courses through the no-time of the decision in the present passing. No-time because the decision is immanent to the event’s recompo- sition. The event-surface becomes thick with time signatures. Dancers cue- ing through alignment move with the time of the cue’s making and all the preexisting and future-forming time signatures in the making, all in the no-time of decision. The no-time of decision coupled with the making-time of movement-moving brings the durational surface of the event to the fore, opening the sender-receiver relation to the collective individuation of a dis- tributed relational movement.
While cues in preparation for One Flat Thing, reproduced are rehearsed, in the doing they land the dance in an infinity of ways in a shifting landscape of infinite catalyzed reconfiguring. Cues thus open the choreography to a making-time that occasions the coming into expression of a making-place, their complex orchestration across collective strata landing the dance in a time always configured anew.
Landing sites, as Arakawa and Gins (2002) define them, don’t need to actually either land or site. They can travel as immanent configurations of possible worlds, tweaking the affective tonality of an event while remaining virtual. Negatively prehended, as Whitehead would say—they can be felt as virtual tendencies that have the potential to act on future reconfigurations without ever coming to the fore as actual occasions.9 Cues also work like this. They propel tendencies that may or may not reach the surface of their articulated expression in the field of the actual. They float at the threshold of perception, they field surroundings, landing narrowly and widely, affect- ing, imaging, dimensionalizing. And they create paths of resistance and cohesion, propelling incipient actions even as they recast spacetimes of
recombination. Active virtually and actually, cues move movement, and, in doing so, they catalyze event-time.
Each landing is a cue in motion. Each cue in motion is a dancing. Each such iteration of counterpoint in the dancing—the activation of a field of action that creates a coincidence of attributes generating an infinity of folds—is a proto-architecture. And each proto-architecting of choreo- graphic thinking is an impetus for a mobile architecture in the making. This mobile architecture is never a simple iteration-as-structure of a past configuration or idea. It is created in the moving, moved by the enabling con- straints proposed not only by the rehearsed cues that propel the organiza- tion of the dance, but also by the folding surfaces of the landings that never quite find their sites. The mobile architecture is itself a proposition for land- ing. It is less a figure than a diagrammatic praxis that marks the durational field of the dance in its eventful unfolding.
For Forsythe, the durational field of the dance is propositional: it is con- figuring more than configured. This despite the long hours of rehearsal and the complex movement vocabularies for cueing and aligning invented and studied by his excellent dancers. The choreography is configuring rather than simply configured because the choreographic field is itself continu- ously evolving through the cueing/aligning process. We experience the com- plexity of this evolution when we approach One Flat Thing, reproduced as an open field of distributed relational movement that operates with but also in excess of the human body: the cue lands nonlocally, meeting the dancer in the between of movements-moving. The dancer cues or aligns not by stop- ping the movement but by engaging directly with the nonlocal interval of the cue as it meets movement-moving. The resulting movement moves the relation between cueing and aligning in the mode, always, of the already- mobile. The dancer does not watch, think, count, decide, and then move. The cue moves the dance, and in the choreographic field’s subsequent re- aligning, dancers land position, continuously moving through relational posture.
The protagonist? Attention. Attention is another name for the fielding of the cue and the moving into its resulting alignment. The field is attentive. Attention is the enabling constraint of the structured improvisation that cues movement-moving. It is the nonlocal intensive node around which constellations of movement-aligning collectively regroup.
Practice and technique are key to the creation of a dance of attention. The
readiness to align of the attentive dance is what spurs the choreographic surface to come alive collectively. To cue to complex alignment in a prac- tice of counterpoint: a body must be open to landing in more ways than one. It must attend to its tendency toward habit in order to evolve toward openness-to-invention: from technique to technicity. It must learn to re- spond not only to actual landings but to the virtual forces of cues that don’t land. And it must learn to move in attention with the complexity of the cue’s incipient multiplicity, landing position in the associated milieu of movement-moving where the body is always more than one.
The dancer’s ability to align to cue with more than habitual responses to forms of cueing allows her to dance into the cue in a recalibrating of collective movement. The dancer dances this recalibration, dancing not simply her own movement but the very mobility of the choreographic sur- face. This proposes a renewal of movement expressibility within the stream of movement-moving.
Movement expressibility calls forth a dance of attention that moves in open circuits, looping across nonlocal tendencies, feeding-forward into the multiphasing surfaces  of  movement  aligning.  Dancing  attention  is dancing-with the environment cueing. It is less being attentive-to than be- coming in attention-with: the dance of attention is alive with the tendencies of a mobility that can only express itself through the future-forming inter- val of event-time.
Attending to the dance in the event-time of structured improvisation is dancing the incipient mobile architecture of distributed relational move- ment. Like its dance of attention, distributed relational movement is a con- cept that begins to touch the nonhuman that is at the heart of movement- moving. At the  interval where  movement aligns to  cueing, where  the choreographic surfaces as collective individuation, the body never acts alone. The field’s proprioceptive surface is agitated by incipient relation- ality. Relational movement’s preacceleration is always already coursing through the welling event.
Since there is no before and after of total movement, the movement’s relational distribution is what is at stake. How the redistributing relation moves between cues affects what will emerge as the resonant territory on the topological surface of the dance dancing itself. Some of the dance’s movement is in and of the human body, certainly, but the force of its redis- tributive dephasing exceeds the bounds of the human, active in the non- local, nonhuman relation priming for collective alignment. In these com-
plex dephasings, what moves the relation is as much the virtual as it is the actual. This is why even as complex an iteration as Synchronous Objects— with its many representations of what One Flat Thing, reproduced can look like—cannot fully map the complexity of choreography as mobile architec- ture. Representations function at the level of actuality. At their best, they can only peripherally deal with the push-pull of virtual potential that is part and parcel of choreography’s incipient “what else.” The Synchronous Ob- jects Platform attempts to do this by foregrounding in an inventive man- ner the divergent modalities of Forsythe’s choreographic practice as it re- emerges through a variety of synchronous spatial constellations. But no representation can, in the end, adequately attend to the durational force that makes mobile architectures come to expression. This is why it tends to be “The Dance” that stands out most on the Synchronous Objects website. For “The Dance” not only creates a visualization of a form, it makes felt how mobility is architected.
At its best, architecture is a diagrammatic praxis that brings to the fore the force taking form of what Spuybroek calls “an original curve” and de- fines as the surface of action that is always also the surface of perception (2004, 7). Cues as they actualize in alignment are an example of the bring- ing into confluence of perception and action. The cue affects the field of action in a perceptual synchronization that moves the body. It catalyzes alignments that themselves create new priming opportunities at the inter- val where action and perception are one. These alignments return in varied iterations as refrains of activity that territorialize certain systems of per- ception.
In aligning to cue,10 what catalyzes is the original curve of relational attention. This dance of attention is a collective enunciation of a tendency toward relational resonances rather than individual positioning. Aligning creates resonant territories not only of bodies but of volumes, diagram- matic surfaces in the making, enabling constraints for collective becoming.
The body’s position in the field of relational alignment is more than a preconstituted posture. It is the proto-architectural, the diagrammatic how of the then-now of movement-moving. It is always collective and, as such, relationally distributed, proto-architectural because already mobiliz- ing into the force of a volumetric taking form. You don’t strictly align to a rehearsed position, you don’t align to a person, you align to the mobility of the architecture of the dance dancing you. You dance its volume, the quality of its coming into itself, as much or more than you dance its position or
form. You align to the relational complexity of cues as they dance the envi- ronment reconfiguring. You move-with the topological surface of experi- ence, moving the environment that persons, activating the relation.
The choreography of One Flat Thing, reproduced proposes modes of entry into the collective movement of a dancing surface that is inherently com- positional. The dancers co-compose an event that in turn postures them. Their bodies are primed. But in this future-past vectorization of the sur- face welling toward a mobile architecture, it is not only the dancing body that is primed. The whole spacetime of distributed relational movement is at the ready, already reconfiguring in a tending-toward-cueing. The thigh- tabletop, the table-spine, poised for recomposition. What is composing is the very between, the interval that activates each of these becoming- assemblages. What is composing is event-time, not time as separate from moving bodies, but time as collectively embodied duration, rhythmically attending to the dance.