Part 2: Participatory Ecologies
To move from a choreography of collective orchestration for a reiterative event such as One Flat Thing, reproduced to the choreographing of a participa- tory environment in the context of art involves the deployment of a new set of concepts as well as a tweaking of what choreography can do. In an orches- trated choreographic event for multiple iterations such as One Flat Thing, re- produced, movement is moved from within the performance itself, architect- ing a field of collective mobility that proposes an incipient architecting of a force of form that exceeds the bounds of the actual choreographic event. The question is how or whether participatory events for movement compo- sition such as art installations activated by choreographic objects are also capable of producing mobile architectures.
When the event moves out of the theater into the arena of the participa- tory with the idea of activating collective movement, a choreographic object is often necessary. As described in the interlude “What Else?,” the object here functions not as a thing-in-itself but as a force of form that generates complex patterns in an ecology that touches on the everyday while moving beyond it into the time of the event. With the objectile as the lure, the well- ing event tunes toward its capacity to generate the conditions for a tweaking of attention that activates the spectator. This poses a choreographic chal-
lenge, for these events cannot be choreographed in advance. They rely on a generative choreographing in the doing spurred by an emergent collectivity. In 2004 I began work on a movement experiment/art installation entitled Folds to Infinity, a two-phased fabric-based exploration of how textiles move us (see figure 15). Phase 1, Slow Clothes, is composed of cut and serged fab- ric based on pattern designs that lend themselves to all kinds of garments when connected to each other. Each piece is singular both in its cut and in the placement of buttons, buttonholes, magnets, hooks and eyes, and can be attached to or paired with any other piece to create garments or environ-
ments of the participant’s making.
Phase 1 tends toward surface folds, layerings that are thin and sediment- like, though the magnets’ inherent attraction to multiple stickings does cre- ate a complexity of folding that already tends toward volumetric bunching. Phase 2, Volumetrics (see figure 16), connects to Phase 1 but is based more specifically on the idea of volumes, generating foldings that are thick and bunched. Where Phase 1 plays with color, the fabrics chosen for their chro- matic weaves, Phase 2 is black, the emphasis on textural subtleties. Another difference is that Volumetrics is not cut from preconceived patterns that, in their shape, already call forth garment-potential. Phase 2 is thought as a supplement to Phase 1 that thickens the sediment, building out from under its interweaving layers. Each piece of Volumetrics is more or less a rectangle, has multiple buttonholes through which elasticized string can be pulled to create shapes, folds and bunchings, toggles for adjustment of the strings, and magnets, snaps, and zippers. To play with Volumetrics, toggles are pulled or loosened along the elasticized string or gotten rid of altogether; zippers are opened or closed; snaps are multiply connected on a single piece of fabric or across pieces. In this fabric collection, the flatness of the body-surface is put into question, as is the idea that a garment layers directly on the human frame. The emphasis in Phase 2 is on the ontogenetic qualities of shaping: volumetrics is conceived as a machine for creating volumes. Slow Clothes and Volumetrics could be seen as choreographic objects for the exploration of what a body can do at the productive interval between dressing and architecting. To activate a mobile architecture depends on a series of enabling con- straints. An enabling constraint is a setting in place of a series of condi- tions that foster a limiting of the field of experience even while they allow the incipient event to remain open to invention. Another name for struc- tured improvisation, enabling constraints enable precision of technique in