an open field of experimentation. Enabling constraints for mobile archi- tectures include inventing techniques for collective alignments that evolve beyond pure movement habituation. These techniques can begin with an object but must find creative ways of transducing the object into a proposi- tion for the collective individuation of a distributed relational movement. Once again, technique must become technicity.
In Folds to Infinity, the objectness itself—the fabric’s texture and color, the shape of the buttons, the geometries of the patterns, the elasticity of the cords, the surprise of the magnets—is the first constraint. The choreo- graphic object activates a limit, becoming an attractor for a certain kind of collective approach. This can happen through color: the diversity of bright color and luminous texture in the Slow Clothes collection immediately tends to attract a certain kind of enthusiasm in the participant, especially in chil- dren. This effect is backgrounded with the black Volumetrics collection, where the effect tends to be more environmental and the proposition more archi- tectural, leading to a more tentative approach. In both collections, how- ever, there is the draw of the magnets, inciting a playful excitement that, under propicious conditions, can undo the participant of the habitual self-
consciousness participatory art events can foster. As attractors, the mag- nets in Slow Clothes and Volumetrics are examples of little machinic assem- blages that turn the fabrics into objectiles. They assist in tuning the Folds to Infinity object toward its propositional nature, emphasizing that this is less an “artwork” than a choreographic invitation for the activation of a collec- tive dance of attention.
Participatory ecologies such as Folds to Infinity propose to make felt the mobility of the concept of choreography beyond the collective body of the dancer. For a mobile architecture to emerge out of the process, the propo- sition, as mentioned above, has to exceed both the object-in-itself and the body-in-itself. Seen as two instances of the same conceptual grouping, the object and the body are anathema to mobile architectures precisely because they delimit the event according to preconstituted interiorities. It is there- fore incumbent on the event as it unfolds that all preconstituted constitu- ents be transformed into propositions. In Folds to Infinity, a key enabling constraint to open the object toward its propositional force or prime in- volves creating modes of access or entry that best incite a collective indi- viduation. If a collective individuation emerges, what can result is the de- phasing of the art event into an experimentation with collaboration. In such instances where a transduction occurs that brings art into the field of indi- viduation, what follows is the creation of an incipient choreography. This incipient choreography is inherently collective.11
Key is to maintain the balance between the active constraints built into the singular event proposition and the open system of its deployment. Mo- bile architectures never result from a posture of “anything goes,” but nor do they emerge from strict replayings of individual or object-oriented sce- narios dedicated to predictable outcomes.
To turn the object into a choreographic proposition, the object must be- come diagrammatic. This means that the object has to form a series with the distributed relational movement of the event, opening itself to the event’s vacuoles of potential.
Take two different Slow Clothes events. The first (shown in figure 17) took place in March 2008 at the Society for Art and Technology (sat) in Mon- treal. The setup was complex: a magnetic assemblage of plastic tubes and fabric constellations covering approximately nine hundred square feet. The environment was set up through groupings of tonalities of color to create a forestlike setting of fabric composition.12 In addition to choreographing the actual compositions such that the fabric could easily be touched and
moved, much thought was given to the way participants would enter and move through the wider event-space of the gallery. The wager was that how people entered would affect how they would continue to move through the installation and create with it.
With this in mind, we set up a single initial entry point into the large space so that all participants would be funneled toward the far left of the installation where the darker colors—greens and browns—congregated on and around sculptures beckoning to the wider constellation.13 Upon enter- ing into this secondary arena, participants had three options. They could move into the space in the most direct manner, which would siphon them toward the greens, from whence they would likely wander into the far side of the room where tones of orange gave way to a large orange velvet couch where they could comfortably sit and view the unfolding of the event from a safe but still enfolding distance. Alternately, they might be attracted to the open center of the space where all colors came together. A move in this di- rection, however, rather than giving immediate access to the central space of the installation, landed the participant in front of a warped transparent screen hanging at eye level.
This screen was conceived as a velocity-prime, affecting not only the speed of entry into the event but the very appearing of the installation. We suspected that rather than simply ducking under this space-undulating screen, some participants might pause in front of it, taken aback by a cer- tain vertiginous realigning of the event-space. Participants entering this way might find the posture of their engagement altered. The third option was to walk toward the right of the installation in a beeline toward the wine. Moving this way, the participant would likely not even notice the screen (or the dark greens on the far left), focused as they would be on the refreshment-attractor, the reds and browns at the far-right end of the installation appearing only at the threshold of their perception, if at all. Each of these modes of entry, conceived as enabling constraints toward af- fective tunings of the event in the moving, were techniques conceived not only to alter how the installation emerged for participants but also to ex- plore how a decisional cut changes the experience of participation.
As the participant moved through the “forest” and began to play with the fabric, or as the fabric magnetically caught the participants’ belt or metal- lic buttons and attached itself, connecting them to its structure, the work began to unfold into its generative architecting. For the magnetic surround from whence the collection was hung was itself an architecture, but not one