The installation was pristine, the color combinations startling, and the shapes seductive. What I didn’t immediately realize, however, was that the museum was having its effect: the collection looked more polished, the racks lending it a professional aspect, but the architecture as a whole was far less supple. The collection looked contained by preexisting space. I worried about how to get the participants going since I had little control over the participants’ modes of entry into the event-space and since the collection looked so much like an art object. I needn’t have been concerned. Before I knew it, the participants had taken possession of the fabric, their rich and varied experience with textiles—this was part of a wider textile exhibition and therefore attracted many participants with extensive backgrounds in fibres and design—an obvious entry point into the concept at work in Folds to Infinity. They were immediately engaged but on a different level from what I had experienced at the first Slow Clothes exhibition, wanting to know more about the craft of the work—about the buttons, about the cuts, the patterns, the provenance of the fabric—than about how to make it move. I found myself enthusiastically involved in the object qua object: dressing and un- dressing, we talked about the difference between Indian and Chinese silk, between the plastics used to make buttons of the early 1920s compared to
those of the 1950s, about pattern cuts and the intensive passage between shapes and volumes.
More than in other Slow Clothes events—in Brazil, in Berlin, and in Mon- treal—these were participants for whom the cut of the cloth was already a familiar affordance for the creation of certain specific shapes—they saw shirts and dresses and pants in the making. Where earlier participants might not, upon seeing the pieces, immediately see how they could be trans- formed from their two-dimensional cut into a three-dimensional piece of clothing, this was a group for whom the textiles—their cuts, their quali- ties, the placing of the buttons, magnets, and hooks—carried meaning. The object itself was replete with information. The result: they moved through the fabric with a strong sense of technique. They knew, for instance, how to pair pieces, how to invent modes of fastening with the magnetic jewelry I had fashioned (composed of wires, magnets, and buttons). And so they turned to the composition with a strong sense of what the fabric propo- sition could do. Unlike earlier exhibitions, they also took more time with each piece of fabric, examining the constellations of buttons, admiring the finishing, discussing among themselves how a single cut could create more than one garment or could fashion the garment in more than one way. And then, in contemplative slowness, they began to invent, turning the mag- netic jewelry into corsets for the creation of hanging fabric designs, play- ing with the forms the folds could take, pairing pieces of fabric to create complex garments. More than anywhere else the collection has toured, they experimented with how a body expresses itself in the dressing. They took literally the proposition that this is a textile collection for the dressing of all bodies, even bodies yet to be invented. And they made exquisite configura- tions. But they barely moved. They mostly worked in pairs, carefully design- ing, placing piece against piece, playing with color. They wanted to know what their garments looked like and they were extremely interested in the idea that someday this collection would be presented as a proposition for the making of actual pieces of clothing.14 They took Slow Clothes at its word, engaging in a slow dance of still-moving dressing bodies.
This was a successful event—if participation and enjoyment are markers for success—but it remained at the level of the object. I left this exhibition with a renewed sense of what the object could do but without a sense of having been able to activate an incipient choreography that exceeded the object. The push-pull of a mobile architecture in the making was missing.