Tentative Constructings Toward a Holding in Place * When an event architects a mobility that outdoes it, the relationship between body and spacetime has fundamentally shifted. No longer do we have the human at the center. In- stead, we have priming-for-movement, cues, alignments, inflections, vacu- oles of expression. We have an architecture that persons and a moving that choreographs. This is not to discount the human dancing body. It is to open the body to its relational potential as a participatory node in the milieu of movement. It is to emphasize that there is no outside of movement, that movement already moves and that we are moved by it and move it on the topological surface of its deformation. Movement is already an architect- ing. It is already landing, already making space, making time. Configuring, it individuates bodies-in-movement that express a collectivity of alignment that resolves, often, on a singular body, but also moves, always and inces- santly, across the distributed milieu that is choreography’s architecting of relational   movement.
Mobile architectures: “tentative constructings toward a holding in place”
(Arakawa and Gins 2002, 47). Architectures, in the words of Arakawa and Gins, that come into their own with the “ever-on-the-move body” in the tense of the tendentially indeterminate. Only nomads, Arakawa and Gins argue, have taken such architecture seriously. Perhaps not. Perhaps chore- ographers have been inventing modes of architecting all along, creating out of everyday movements to make felt how the collective individuation of participatory ecologies is always already architecturally inflected. Perhaps they have always already sensed that landing sites are dispersive, tangential, productive, and forceful, and must not be confined to preexisting or final- ized structures of repetition. Perhaps choreographers have always already known that difference erupts no matter how often you rehearse, how often you practice counterpoint, how often you step onto the stage or the side- walk.
In the aligning of choreography to mobile architecture we have an open- ing toward the notion that “space is the result of the surface’s operation” (Semper qtd. in Benjamin 2004, 345). The surface’s operation: the original curve where the mobile topology of collective individuation attends to the tangential volumetrics of an environment for architecting.