A call for a participatory art event often entails the invitation to touch. This may involve an actual direct touching (“touch this lever, this button and it will cause a change in the environment”), or it may involve a more elusive call to touch that includes being moved by a work in transformation. Either way, the call to touch is a demand: it asks the participant to relate, in this time of interaction, to the unfolding of the work. It asks the participant to be open to a certain unknowability, and to a certain risk.
Here I want to suggest that despite calls made toward open-endedness and process (understood as positive effects of a generative event) the call to touch is never straightforward. For it is a call, and like all calls it asks that it be listened to in certain ways, that it elicit behavior considered manageable under the conditions of the work. This is the risk any artist takes: that the call to touch will expose itself as an all-or-nothing proposition, that the par- ticipant will feel burdened by the event rather than excited by it, that instead of setting new conditions for experimentation, a failure will be experienced from the outset, a failure to have known in advance what it means to touch. This is because a call to touch is always bounded to some extent within certain  predefined  expectations:  touch  depends  on  a  certain  preunder- standing of what are considered its acceptable limits. Touch, but touch this way! No matter how carefully crafted, no participatory art event is ever com- pletely exempt from this imbrication of touch with the expectations that accompany it. For touch, as Jacques Derrida (2005) has shown, can never be completely disentwined from tact. This strange intertwining of touch with tact, of touch’s inherent injunction to be “hands-on” and its elusive
demand to know in advance what participation means in each instance, is the complex challenge of any art practice that asks of the spectator to be involved in the carrying-through of the work. I have elsewhere called this activation of the sensing body an instance of a “politics of touch” (Manning 2007), emphasizing that within the realm of touch lies both tact-driven be- havior that orients to premapped and preordained notions of participation and the opportunity to rearticulate the political toward a thinking in move- ment that emphasizes the gesture of a reaching-toward that can activate a co-composing relational field. With participatory art, I believe a politics of touch is always at stake—a politics that trembles between touch-as-tact and touch as the activity through which new constellations for the bodying are created (and where the line between body and environment is smudged).
The role participatory art plays in activating and rethinking a politics of touch was made particularly apparent to me in July 2010 when DJ Savarese and I began a collaborative project involving my artwork Folds to Infinity. Our plan was to generate ideas for how to bring participatory art to the autistic community: we had been invited by autcoM,1 a conference organized by and for autistics, to create an installation of the work.
In the context of a project such as Folds to Infinity, participation means many things: it means to walk among the fabrics and enjoy their texture, to touch or wear the fabrics, to reposition or compose with them architec- turally, to assist an other who is trying to compose clothing but can’t quite manage on their own, to be inadvertently connected to the magnets inter- spersed in the collection (your belt buckle or purse magnet may pull the fabric off someone else’s body or shift the shape of the installation). The invitation is broad: touch, move, be moved.
But as was made clear when DJ first entered the installation space, par- ticipation with the work also means understanding the limits of touch in the singular context of each of the artwork’s iterations. This, I believe, is what initially held DJ back in the context of our collaborative work at the SenseLab. For even before he had quite extended his hand to the mobile architecture that held Folds to Infinity, even before he had quite begun to en- gage with the work, he heard the unspoken injunction: get it right! DJ quickly retracted his hand and moved across the participatory environment to sit on an orange couch and wait for further instructions. The initial promise of intuitive co-composition had passed and been replaced by a distancing pos- ture of reflection. Not in the least surprising: no one wants to play when it seems as though the rules of the game are laid out in advance.
Relational art’s call to touch, to play, to encounter an environment in its unfolding, risks failure if its politics of touch are not immanent to the event. Any expectation of touch will always risk including a predetermined understanding of what it means to engage the work. Such a notion of touch will never be able to completely divest itself of its doubling of touch! with do not touch! or touch this way!
The challenge is immense: a participatory work that is successful can- not depend on the mantra of “anything goes” as this will only produce (in the best of all cases) chaos or (in the worst-case scenario) nothing. For a work to be successful, as suggested in the preceding chapter, enabling con- straints must be embedded within its conceptual design, and these con- straints must to some degree immanently direct the work toward its un- folding. But these constraints must also be capable of remaining flexible enough to refrain from the preposturing of the work (touch it, but get it right! ). To do its work, participatory art must therefore reflect on how it creates the constellations for its unfolding, how it places within the work the expecta- tions that may ultimately close down the very potential the work was meant to unleash.
This was not all immediately clear to me. What I knew at the outset was that DJ had sensed an expectation I had inadvertently built into the event, despite the sustained thought I had given to how the conditions of a partici- patory event are crafted. And so it became our job, our collective effort, for the next three days (and the months to follow), to better understand how touch came to embody the injunction I wanted to leave behind. Our work: how to conceive of a way of reentering the field of participation such that the politics of touch are no longer confined to the realm of tactful touch but are instead inflected toward the relational ecology a singular iteration of the piece calls forth when it is set into motion.
The first issue that needed to be addressed was how the artwork itself crafts the problem. What is Folds to Infinity’s implicit call? Does the fabric, the installation, the magnetic architecture, depend on the laying of hands? And if so, does it ask for a certain kind of touch? Does the fabric collec- tion require a physical handling, a local encounter with this or that kind of visible or tangible interactivity? Is there within the ethos of the piece an opening that invites participatory techniques that tune toward the more- than of a local response?2
Folds to Infinity is not a neutral materiality that is added onto the perfor- mative. The fabric, the magnets, the architecture—each of these activates
orientations that affect how the piece itself generates spacetimes of ex- perience. As a choreographic object, it is always and only what it does, here, now. This means that each iteration of the work will reorient what the work can do. Nothing can be taken for granted. Participatory art cannot be con- ceived to template: every participant will affect how the work unfolds, and each unfolding of the work will make demands on how the work evolves for the next iteration. No matter how many times a piece has been exhibited, no matter how successful it has been in this or that context, no matter how many evolving techniques have been woven into the work to facilitate its structured improvisation, there is no guarantee that the conditions of this particular enunciation will unfold the piece in predictable (or interesting) ways. There is simply no guarantee with work that depends on participation for its unfolding.