Day 1
DJ increasingly found himself in a fix. He wanted to engage with the work, wanted to see touch as the invitation to play, but understandably felt that play was tinted with expectations not yet fully worked out. What if in the playing, tactlessness reared its head, re-stereotyping him? For DJ is visibly autistic and has had enough of being accused of untactful behavior—too loud, too disruptive, too excited, too alive. He has been taught over and over by a largely uncomprehending normopathic world to not touch-engage- relate with such verve, so directly. Here, in the context of Folds to Infinity, he risked once more being “too much” or, even worse, being “taken as stupid,” as he calls it. For while there is no question that DJ is highly intelligent, a scenario whose stakes are muddy risks putting him in a position wherein he is incapable of properly working out the conditions of the environment and rising to the occasion, thus reinvigorating the deep anxiety he lives with, and making his motor-activation issues more acute.
On top of this, it is already hard enough for DJ to try to mask the com- plexity of sensation he lives with every second of the day without having to spontaneously learn what we neurotypicals might have in mind when we select out one sense (touch) and incite him to follow our lead. What can this even mean to someone for whom the concept of discrete sense modalities remains a mystery? For DJ’s experience of the world, like many autistics, involves a complex synesthesia where it is unclear how discrete modali- ties on their own do the work of sensing. What can touch mean to those of
us for whom to sense is to participate in a crossmodal orientation toward the world, where to smell means to hear color, where to see means to taste sound? Intense synesthesia creates an agitation of perception complicating the parsing out of experience into this or that—this touch or that fabric— undermining the easy separation of human-actor and object-receptor. For the autistic, to be in the world is to world, to experience the unfolding, in all of its complexity, of the commingling of all drops of experience.