Day 2
Sometimes composing on his iPad, sometimes exploring the field of forces of the rare earth magnets of which the collection and the architecture are composed, sometimes quietly attending to the environment from the half- distance of his seat on the couch, DJ participated in a dance of attention that was never disinterested. For it was clear, as we communicated through the iPad’s synthesized voice, that DJ did want to actively compose with the in- stallation, and that he felt drawn to it—“I want Erin to help me create play,” he typed. The question was how to bridge that first injunction of tact-touch, how to invite DJ to reach beyond this first injunction toward a new constel- lation that precisely did not seek to prefigure in advance how the relational field should express itself ? How might we open the work to the differential created in the act of reaching-toward, a reaching-toward through which a relationality could be crafted that would exceed the sum of the event’s parts?
On the second day, it occured to me to ask DJ to tell me about his experi- ence of the space. Was an environment of my creation also an opening to him? Did he think Folds to Infinity’s mobile architecture as I had conceived it could be a generative proposition for other autistics? After some reflection, DJ suggested that the installation might not cater to all kinds of movement, and that it might in fact not foreground movement enough. We followed through with this proposition, discussing the possibility of bringing the work to autcoM in the form of a mobile experiment that would use par- ticipants’ wheelchairs themselves as metallic architectures. Although we did not ultimately follow through with this, it became the first clue: Per- haps to “create” play was to allow the artwork to travel on its own? To make movement its subject as well as its outcome?
Day 3
DJ Savarese writes: “Experts think they can determine our thoughts from observing our behaviour, but most of you know this is hard to do for any- one. It is especially hard to do if the person’s body deserts its hopeful mind because of severe anxiety or illogical sensory input. For example, some of us see emotions as colours and others of us feel noise. We might stop a movement. People think we’re avoiding doing work, but we’re deserting our reasonable selves because we feel a fearful sound or see quiet green re- assessed as approval.”3
“Quiet green reassessed as approval” began to tint this third day already suffused with explorations into participation-as-mobility, participation as an opening to a mobile unfolding of event-time. With the beginnings of this constellation mapped out, in a rare bid to “independence,” a concept that means much to those who have daily needs that must be met by others, DJ typed for his parents to leave the room so that he could finally “create play with Erin.”
What is the difference between playing and creating play? To be forced to play is like being forced to touch. Not only does it potentially do violence to the complex relational field in co-composition, it also presupposes an already-homogenized arena of engagement. This tends to put play squarely in the realm of a local interaction instead of within a field of relation where what is foregrounded is not the human per se but the more-than of ex- perience in the unfolding. Was there enough nuance within the artwork’s proposition, I wondered, to activate relation beyond the linear model of a localized interactivity?
Folds to Infinity was initially conceived as an intervention into prêt-à- porter culture. My research question was what might it mean for a body to express itself as a continuum in the dressing rather than to have to prefit the clothing? While conventions of haute couture were based on the creation of the garment for the body in its present form (without an ideal of shape or size preinscribed), haute couture was never democratically available for the populace at large. Would it be possible to reinscribe certain aspects of haute couture—the singularity of creation for just this shape, just this movement of the body-becoming—while still making the garment available to all, as it was meant to be in the prêt-à-porter tradition with which we are more familiar? Adjacent to these concerns was the exploration of what it might mean to dress relationally. The force of the magnets—and the disquiet they
cause in the dressing, creating sporadic folds and spontaneously connect- ing to pieces in their proximity—would make it very difficult to compose alone, thus proposing an opening for a collective practice of dressing.
I knew, of course, that this was only one proposition of what the work could do as a choreographic object. Nonetheless, spending time with DJ in the SenseLab, I realized that my research questions were still too promi- nent, creating too tight a constraint within what I wanted to see as an ex- ploratory matrix. With DJ it became clear that I had to actively open up the work to its own more-than, to engage with what it could do without neces- sarily assuming that it was only doing its work when it was directly, locally handled.
Already tending toward these kinds of considerations, in 2009 I began to explore, through conductive fabric, proximity sensors, speakers, and miniature fans, how Folds to Infinity might begin to “entertain the environ- ment” beyond the kind of participatory call already sewn into its concept. The idea behind this phase of Folds to Infinity (titled Weather Patterns) was to set up a system of sensors embedded into the fabric that react to movement, altering the threshold conditions of sound in the environment while activat- ing barely perceptible air currents. For this to happen, the participants need not actually touch the work—any shift in the electromagnetic conditions of the room has an effect, as will any movement, including that of air currents. The idea behind this version of Folds to Infinity is to make felt how the simple presence of movement in the space affects the environmental conditions not only of the space itself but also of the work. Because the focus of Weather Patterns is on thresholds of perception, these changes in environmental con- ditions are not meant to physically alter the space in any radically apparent way. The idea is to enter into relationship with the largely nonsensuous dynamics of a mobile environment, making felt how space is always already in movement. This project, now in its final phase—with collaborators Mazi Javidiami, Nathaniel Stern, Bryan Cera, and Andrew Goodman—seek to entertain the environment with and, in some sense, despite the participant, making the participant part of the active ecology of the world tuning to its difference without necessarily putting the participant in the role of direct activator of change. There of course remains the option to compose with the fabric, to build, to dress, to architect. But the proposition remains more en- vironmental in this piece.
Although this phase of the project was not yet resolved during DJ’s visit to be SenseLab, it felt as though the potential of this notion of entertain-
ment as related to the environmentality of ecologies in the making was exactly what DJ and I were working toward.