It took three days, but finally it occurred to me to ask DJ what it was he saw exactly, in this field of experimentation. “Quiet green in a sea of noise” was his answer. “What shall we do to quieten the environment?” I asked him, realizing that the field of color was too much, too loud, too overwhelming to really engage with. We immediately took down the black, which DJ clas- sified as “scary,” scary perhaps because of the color, or perhaps simply be- cause of the injunction (Touch! Do not touch! ) it had come to embody—for it was the black fabric of Volumetrics that incited DJ to pull back in his initial encounter with Folds to Infinity upon entering the SenseLab for the first time. What became clear during this process of scaling back on color was that, for DJ, a color does not simply evoke a quality, it is a qualitative field in itself. He hears the qualitative resonance of color’s relational field in its emer- gence: he feels “fiery” for orange, he directly experiences “luminous” when he “sees” the varying shades of blue, purple, and pink of the dupioni silks.
This direct experience of quality is allied to synesthesia, and particularly to what Daniel Stern calls the event’s “activation contour”—the force of form of an event’s coming into itself. As it became more apparent that DJ and I were dealing with the affective force of activation contours—instead of discrete objects or even colors—we finally began to see how we might actively create play. To create play was to play with and generate new activa- tion contours.
To touch will always of course also mean to handle, to reach across toward the texture of the world in all of its complexity, but its attendant affective quality—to be touched, to touch in the between of words—is ulti- mately how activation contours are tweaked. From DJ—as from many other autistics—what we can learn is that touch is a worlding that always already participates in the making sense of the world. No laying of hands is nec- essary for this: to touch is to become attuned to the ecologies of sensation always already activating the world as we embody it, as it embodies us.
In the end, DJ and I did create play. And we did directly touch the fab- ric. But this touching felt like an afterthought. For in our creation of a new mobile architecture, what we were doing was less handling the fabrics than activating the architecture of light that was always already part of the in-
stallation. In a sense what we were doing was parsing out the luminousness from the wider field of movement-moving and sensations overcrowding.
To create play is not as simple as to touch. Perhaps for the neurotypical, touch is as immediate an entry into the relational as we can, in the first in- stance, conceive of. But all participatory work, to be successful, must get beyond this first injunction. The work must carry within its concept the conditions for play that can propel the participant toward the more-than of touch where the activity of the work in its eventness can be felt, where the work’s already attuning relational potential affects what a body-worlding can do. Seen this way, there is no work that isn’t already potentially partici- patory, be it a painting, an architecture, an installation, a musical compo- sition. The challenge is to create the conditions for the work to work in an ecology of relation that does not privilege the interactive but seeks to open the way for the activation of the more-than the work has to offer.
What neurodiversity teaches us, it seems to me, are techniques to be- come attuned to this more-than, to become-attuned to the ineffable amo- dality of experience that activates the contours of the event toward a mov- ing, an encountering, a being-moved in a complex ecology of practices.
Spacetimes of relation are never neutral. They are fiery, luminous, scary. They are alive across their resonances, human and nonhuman, modal and amodal. They are attendant and attending, attuning and entertaining. With DJ at the SenseLab, over time we began to collectively attune to how the work did its work, alone and in recombination. We found that even with- out laying hands on the work, the work was never passive, never still. It was lived in a synesthetic interplay that was mobile and complex, propositional across registers. And we found that it was here, in an approach more eco- logical than interactive, in a veering from implicit demand, from implicit expectation, that the work began to create play.