Step 1: Lie down on the floor. Close your eyes.
Step 2: Begin to create a diagram of the space. Allow the diagram to settle. Step 3: Find an open space in the diagram and move into it, virtually.
Step 4: Locate another open space. Move into it.
Step 5: Wait. Feel time’s elasticity. Feel the space shifting.
Step 6: Keep your eyes closed even while you keep moving in and through the diagram.
Step 7: Slowly stand up, eyes still shut. In the standing, reencounter your diagram. Step 8: Wait.
Step 9: Find another opening within the diagram. Step 10: Move into it, actually this time.
Step 11: When your movement slows to a standstill and the diagram has solidified, slowly open your eyes.
The first step in the procedure above,1 recursively attended to in subsequent steps, already exceeds a visual mapping. For while the initial boundaries of the diagram may seem to hold to a perspectival order, their potential for variability is experienced as soon as movement is introduced in the third step: find an opening and move into it. Here, the activity of space-shaping is em- phasized. This space-shaping, while it may seem to take off from the repre- sentation of a space—a vision of a diagram fully-formed—actually emerges more through a feeling of space shifting than a visualization of a form.
Space-shaping is a procedure not so much for the creation of a stable version of space as for the bringing forth of active intervals—associated milieus—that are the diagram’s force of form. What the procedure of a dia- grammatic praxis such as the one above can do is make felt the processual nature of space in-forming for experience. One of the ways this processual quality of experiential spacetime is felt most keenly is through movement, in particular preacceleration, the virtual premovement that accompanies all actual movement. What preacceleration does is make felt the tendings already in germ before a displacement happens, emphasizing that move- ment happens less in an individual body than in the intervals proposed by movement’s inherent relationality.
Space-shaping is immanent to the activity of diagramming. The diagram does not preexist its shaping. This is felt in step 4: Locate another open space. Move into it. As the participant responds to this step, they find that space is reshaped in the (virtual) moving. They experience a relational movement, a moving-between that connects the first diagram to the incipient diagram- ming in the shaping. The diagram that may have seemed to be an individual form now reveals itself to be an emergent multiplicity. They are not moving into a space so much as moving the opening through which space is crafted.
This makes felt a quality of body-spacing—not your body exactly but a body-elastic co-constituted in the shaping—that itself becomes part of the ecology of the diagrammatic praxis. Spacing and bodying transindi- viduate, fashioning a multiple singularity: a body-diagrammatic. The body- diagrammatic is a procedural “I” that stands not for the subject but for individuation. For the process is not one of defining an individual—a body, a form—but of making felt the merging of topological registers of co- constitution: space-bodying, time-spacing. Step 5 is everywhere present: Feel time’s elasticity. Feel the space shifting.
A notable dephasing comes with step 7—Slowly stand up, eyes still shut. In the standing, reencounter your diagram. Here, in the recalibration of equilibri- ums, preaccelerations of movement potential cross the vertical-horizontal axis, leaving the body-diagrammatic unmoored. What has shifted here is not the body per se but the conditions for bodying in movement. As par- ticipants stand with/in their shifting diagrams, what tends to happen is the experience of an intensifying of mutation, a multiplying of intervals. Some participants describe this as a heightened sense of the becoming- environment’s affective tonality: they talk about the intensification  of sound or touch; they talk of space becoming multidimensional.
This is perhaps why, in step 10—Move into it, actually this time—despite the call to “actually move,” participants tend to prioritize a stilling (a quiet moving in place) rather than an actual displacement. It is as though with the volumetric shifting in the standing comes an infradimensionalizing of the very idea of ground that requires a new modality of attention, attention- with, in the intensive stilling. Participants speak of a sense of a volumizing of dimension, a curving of spacetime, an opening of the field of “behind- ness” or “underneathness” that topples their sense of bodily integrity on the the horizontal-vertical axis. It is here that preacceleration’s interval in continuous modulation can be felt most strikingly: the infradimensionality of diagrams recalibrating is expressive of the multiplicity of intervals cre- ating openings for the moving. What is felt: an uncanny intensity, vertigo, a resonance or vibration in the stilling, a multiplicity of movement potential. Preacceleration does not occur “in” space (as though space preexisted it): preacceleration feeds experience in the moving at the incipient edge where the before and between of movement coincide. In habitual move- ment, it is most often too fleeting to be felt. Since it is only tending toward the actual, we know it only in the moving, and even then, we cannot easily make sense of it “as such.” But in a focused diagrammatic praxis, especially in the moving across registers of space-timing, preacceleration can some- times be passingly felt, and it is this feeling that most palpably makes ap- parent the inherent elasticity of spacetimes bodying that occurs in step 10. The procedure above is just one example of a diagrammatic praxis that serves to demonstrate the mobility of spacetime in experience. I focus on this to emphasize that all architectings of movement are activations of spacetime in the making, and that the activity of spacing we experience in the moving is an infralayer of the infinite potentiality of bodying, itself co-
composing in an environment of change.
Another thing this simple procedure demonstrates is that all movement is relational movement. There is no shifting of a diagram, no shaping of spacetime, that isn’t implicated in the relational constellation of a wider ecology of movement-moving. While relational movement can operate be- tween two bodies, can be felt as the relational interval of the preaccelera- tion of a body moving toward and with another body, relational movement never operates solely between two.2 It is always multiple, always already distributed in morphing spacetimes of experience. The proposition: distrib- uted relational movement is the form movement takes when it becomes the ontogenetic expression of diagrams in the making.
What Moves?
The initial tendency is to place movement in the human body. This is espe- cially the case in the context of stage-based choreography, where the danc- ing body tends to be at the forefront. In chapter 5 I explore how movement moves in two distinct instances—in William Forsythe’s choreography One Flat Thing, reproduced (see figure 20), as featured on the Synchronous Objects website, and in the participatory installations of my own artwork, Folds to Infinity (see figure 21). Here, my focus is on the ways in which these two variants of choreographic practice create their own complex diagrams, a mobile   architecture.
A mobile architecture, as I suggest in chapter 5, is not a resting place for human bodies, nor is it a built enclosure. Like the diagrammatic praxis of the movement exercise recounted above, a mobile architecture is about the fielding of experimental spacetimes such that they produce an intensive turbulence that becomes the force for a distillation of absolute movement, for the making felt of how movement-moving merges with the actual in its unfolding. The mobile architecture of a choreography is not the plan of the movement or the partitioning of the individual bodies in space. It is the relational force that persists from the collective movement’s incipient cue- ings and alignings. It is the gathering of a force-field not of the bodies per se but of the active intervals their relational movement creates, intervals it taps into to make felt the more-than of a given movement composition.
In chapter 5, through an analysis of the techniques proposed by For- sythe and his dancers, techniques that take counterpoint to a very complex limit, I explore how what cues and aligns is not the human body per se but the landings of sites for future cueings and alignings. These landing sites are more than human. They are the active force of movement’s fieldings in co-constitutive spacetimes of experience, felt as the coming and going of tendencies too quick for the actual perceiving. Certainly, a body moves. But what moves the body is more-than cue, more-than alignment as such. What moves the body is a tendency for movement, a movement of thought. This tendency feeds a collective process, shifting it toward a new aligning. Align- ment is a moving with incipient tendency that realigns the choreographic whole, shifting not simply the body in space, but the space bodying.
The shift I make in this chapter is to look more closely at diagrammatic praxis as an experiment in cueing and aligning aimed at directly experienc- ing the elasticity of spacetime. How does the creation of a diagram morph