The Dance of Attention
The dance of attention is activated by the co-compositional force of dia- grams for the moving that emerge over the course of an event’s coming to expression. What dances to attention is not an external subject but the event itself. It is the event that is attentive to its coming into deformation, an atten- tion that reorients the event toward its intensive more-than.
Each of these concepts—the diagram, commanding form, mobile archi- tecture, dance of attention—is specific to context. The diagram of a paint- ing feeds on texture, light, and incipient form; the commanding form of a musical piece creates a sonorous refrain across performances and re- compositions; a mobile architecture is the activation of the incipient form- without-form of a choreographic proto-architecture; and the dance of at- tention is the attentiveness of the milieu itself to the complex landings of experience in the making. Each of these diagrammatic praxes is intensively intertwined, the concepts mobilized in their difference less to mark a gen- eral distinction than to orient the practice through which they come to ex- pression.
Another way to talk about the practices through which incipient ten- dencies express themselves is to differentiate between modes of existence. Modes of existence, for Étienne Souriau and Gilbert Simondon, are emer- gent modalities of life-living nascent through an event’s form-taking. Modes of existence never preexist a given individuation. They are imma- nent to it. Nor are they, in relation to art practices, about the more superfi- cial notion of style or genre. Modes of existence refer instead to an emer- gent fielding of tendencies that bring a given work or series of works to life across iterations. For example: the mode of existence of William Forsythe’s oeuvre is not the representation of a type of movement or style of content. It has to do instead with a certain quality of experimentation associated, certainly, with the tools the Forsythe Company uses to create movement potential out of the more-than of the dance figure, but not limited to them. To speak of a mode of existence is to find within the practice the singularity that gives it its diagrammatic force.