The Working of the Work
“Put the activation into every part,” Forsythe suggests, “think about where the movement starts and stops—if you raise your arm, where does your skin stretch? Activate the skin.”3 This task, invented for a choreographic pro- cess, results in certain qualities of movement expressibility that lead the body-space continuum to reconfigure itself less in terms of balletic position (though the movement can take fugitive balletic form) than in the unmoor- ing quality of the more-than of a given position. In another context, such as William Forsythe’s Woolf Phrase, a different technique is necessary. This piece, which draws from the work of Virginia Woolf and complexly inter- twines the spoken word and the dancing, explores the intensity of activa- tion across two modalities—the voice and the body-becoming. In this case, a technique is needed to tune language to an otherness of expression where words and movement taken together are capable of creating an active inter- val that pushes both beyond the limits of their form such that we begin to feel the words in the moving. Another piece, NNNN, depends on a differ- ent set of tasks or techniques. NNNN is a quartet that explicitly draws out the breath of the dance. In a play of cueing and aligning, the piece breathes the movement that ensues. Here, the dancers might explore principles of preacceleration and relational movement. For while they move together in what seems to be a call-and-response scenario, what unfolds is a complex
resonance of incipient movement: the dancers move in the moving of each other’s movement.
Each of these techniques creates the basis for a mode of existence that bridges the oeuvre in its divergence while activating its resonances. A mode of existence is not a superficial marker of similarity across an oeuvre. It is not about finding confluences between paintings by a given artist or locating similar forms in a choreographer’s repertoire. Modes of existence are thresholds in the workings of the work that mark a certain productive dephasing of its process. They refer not to the form the work takes but to the consistency of its capacity to exceed a predictable form-taking across varied iterations. The mode of existence activated by an artist’s oeuvre is felt more than seen, plotted not to position but to its very outdoing in a realm of expression that is more technicity than technique.
A dance of attention is the singular expression of the wider range of ex- pressibility of a mode of existence. A dance of attention is not a general oc- currence: it emerges only when the conditions are right. It can be felt when, in the shift from technique to technicity, the incipient potential of a set of emergent relations is tapped into, when a web of precise yet open-ended in- tensities courses through an event rigorously tuning it to its more-than. A dance of attention is a direct feltness of the field of emergence, understood here as a quality of infinite potential with a margin of indetermination at its core.
In a dance of attention, attention itself constitutes the limit. Attention not of, but toward. A dance of attention is the holding pattern of an almost unidentifiable set of forces that modulate the event. We do not attend—the field attends, an attention sustained by the procedural rigor of a set of con- ditions, tasks, techniques that hold the event to itself even while elastically bending time to make space for points of inflection that create differentials of relation.
Tapping into a compositional matrix of relational movement depends on the capacity of a work to fold through what Simondon calls the “opera- tive solidarity” of the elements in co-composition. A dance of attention emerges when this operative solidarity forms not a structure but a mobile architecture—a proto-architecting of movement-moving.
Movement-moving is not spurred solely by human intention. It erupts in the between of the cueing’s aligning, in the relational interval of distributed movement. As Brian Massumi (2009b) writes in relation to Simondon’s notion of individuation, “the causation is always indirect, passing through
an interval of immanence: a moment of concretization whose schema is immanent to active matter.” What returns as commanding form is not the form of the event but the force of its formation. Cue to force of form.