Taking-Time
Where in this matrix might we find the germs of a protopolitics? A proto- politics is a setting into motion of the conditions for political potential. Po- litical potential emerges not from the representation of a given content, but through the event’s challenge to the very idea of form. Think the political here at the very incipiency of its coming to expression, as force of the in-act. And recall that in an activist philosophy, politics must always be understood as a sustained encounter with the modalities of the in-act.
A dance of attention is not a politics as such, but it does carry the germ of protopolitical potential. For if the political is about the tremulous in-act at the heart of experience in-forming, a focus, in the event, on its modality of attending must to some degree be an opening to a protopolitics. Attending here is aligned to Whitehead’s concept of concern: the dance of attention has a concern for the event in its unfolding. The dance of attention is the event’s capacity to make felt the ethos of its very process of coming to force of form. A dance of attention is a protopolitics in that it actualizes an ethos in-formation.
This ethos is not a moral category. It is a quality of relation. The concern for the event is not an individual’s concern. It is the “how” of an event’s concrescence. This concern for the event in its unfolding is linked to an- other Whiteheadian concept: importance. As Whitehead defines it, impor- tance is the force of the infinite in the finite that distinguishes this event from another and makes it stand out in the constellation of a wider nexus of events of its kind. “Importance, limited to a finite individual occasion, ceases to be important. In some sense or other, importance is derived from the immanence of infinitude in the finite” (1938, 28). Importance, again, is not a category imposed on the event. It is how the event has come to feel its coincidence with other events in its emergence as this or that singular con- crescence. A politics in the moving begins with the germ of importance at the heart of the event’s ethos. The dance of attention can be understood as the resonant field through which this is expressed.
What the political can do depends on what the event’s taking-form leaves behind (or casts forth). This more-than touches on the event’s immortality across phases. Every event is held together in the forming by dynamic ten- dencies. The final taking form of an event occurs when the dynamic form resolves. Here, where the event reaches its subjective form, everything the occasion will come to be is at its apex. But despite this monadic quality, as mentioned earlier, there remains an intensive more-than that continues to feed the process of how the next occasion will come to expression, this in a nonlinear model of spacetime. Here lies the germ of the political.