With each new step, scales of procedurality overlap. These scales of pro- cedurality are incipient diagrams: they activate an architecting of mobility that can assemble itself in myriad ways. But this assemblage will reach its potential as a mode of invention for a quality of becoming only if the con- straints for its coming into existence are more enabling than disabling.
As an example, think of a hospital and consider it in procedural terms. Ask what it holds in place. Inquire into its architecting of mobility. Then recall the last time you were sick or visited a sick friend. Reexperience the hospital’s entropy of sameness, pale wall after pale wall, high bed after high bed, closed curtain after closed curtain, double door after double door. Re- call the smell and note how the smell affected posture, appetite, rhythm of walk. See, hear, touch again the glare of metal, the shrill soundscape, beep, beep, the cry behind the half-closed curtain. Note that devastation takes the smell of loneliness, that pain comes with a taste of grit. All this in the name of life. A procedurality not for life-living, but for the suspension of this life in treatment against death. Humanity, toward death staved off.
Now take some of these tendencies but tweak them toward a different dance of attention. Remember that a dance of attention is a mobile sur-
facing that is immanent to the event in the making. Never mistake the built architecture itself for the event: architect mobility! Bring the architecting back to procedurality and explore what kinds of assemblages are called forth. Note that there are procedural fissures in the account of the hospi- tal’s architecting. Hospitals are also for birthing. They are also for exhibiting art, for the gathering of friends and family, for species innovation in labo- ratory research.
Procedural intervention into the architectings of mobility involves find- ing modalities in the event that open the architecting to its more-than such that new speciations, new ecologies, new forms and forces of life can emerge. Take the hospital again. This time, tune its diagram away from the suspension of life to see what happens when life’s relation to death no longer frames the event. Go beyond the human and see the more than human coursing in speciations that exceed the mortal body to include different speeds and slownesses that cut across it, infinitely. Care for the human life span but never overlook the potential of the bacterial. Take note of how life-living courses across this event in the making. Play with the pro- cedures this new operative autonomy lays forth.
Bring circulation into it. Circulation happens on many scales at once, on different timelines, creating topologies of spacetime. When the dance of attention circulates, it resists stultification into a linear expectation: birth- death. Activated through multiple contemporary dephasings in a spiraling eternal return, the interval emerges and takes shape as the radically em- pirical option of life itself or, as Deleuze would say, of a life. A life: the infra- individuation of the force of potential across the surface of life-living.
Architecting mobility always involves creating new modes of existence. It is not so much about rebuilding the hospital as about resituating the question of how life-living expresses itself architecturally, procedurally. Modes of existence are transindividual, collective. “Novel ways of structur- ing” are experiments in collective individuation. The new hospital may not exist as a place, but it may come to life as a performative choreography that activates the force of a life in the living. If this happens, it won’t only be the building we have to remodel. What will need to be attended to is the con- cern for the event of its unfolding across strata that must resolutely remain more than human in their complex speciations.
This all sounds pretty impractical! Rebuild the whole concept of the hos- pital in order to tune its dance of attention? Rethink cultural norms around life, death, and the predominance of the human? Impossible.
Perhaps. But this is the politics of procedurality: that to begin is to begin again, differently, impossibly, impractically. It is to begin not with form but with the force of the more-than as articulated by the welling diagram the event calls forth. What Arakawa and Gins bring to the table is the proposi- tion that diagrammatic praxis is one of circulation and modulation. Begin and begin again, in the middle. A diagrammatic praxis may delve into an existing structure such as the hospital but it will only affect it if what is tar- geted is the creation of new modes of existence that defy or outdo its struc- ture. This is what Arakawa and Gins mean by their proposition “we have decided not to die” (2007).