Politics of Individuation
In their desire to affect the force of form, Arakawa and Gins are political artists: they understand that art cannot create new modes of existence if what it builds on is preexisting content. They know that to invent involves creating at the interstices of multiple interscalar event-times. And so they craft kitchens that are at once opportunities for cooking and invitations for climbing. Their hope? To “help [us] cradle tentativeness.” They design floors that can be an opportunity for walking, but are as likely to be an invi- tation for dizzying, for toppling, for rolling, “to use [our] bodies in un- expected ways to maintain equilibrium.” Architectural surrounds less for “getting somewhere” or “doing something” than to orient toward new ex- trusions from position, in order to “practice not to die.”6 And this way, in the dancing of the form’s outdoing of itself, they literally make a place for the political.
Politics are often perceived as an individual’s relation to the other. Deleuze’s a life is a challenge to such individualized politics. A life fore- grounds the force of life—its political potential as an infra-individuating force for a diagrammatic praxis of life-living—at the cusp of individuation where the preindividual is active in all its intensity. A life is power across life, not biopolitical power over life. It is the event of life-living as it emerges on the transindividual threshold of collective individuation. Not of the human per se, not life in this or that precomposed body, but across, with. A life “is precisely what has been stripped of everything that could contain it or rep- resent it” (Palbart 2009, 41; my translation). A life: a force that dephases this life into the more than human where what lives is a tendency for life across its complex relational modalities.
Politics, then, as the force of the more-than where what is at stake is not simply the human but the ecologies of existence that coevolve in the realm of the more than human. Politics as an aesthetico-ethical engagement with the forces of becoming that are fleetingly perceptible in an event’s dance of attention. Politics as that which “contains in itself a power of amplification” (Simondon 1995, 16).