What is it we really mean when we say “human?” According to autistic Amanda Baggs, we certainly don’t mean “autistic.”1 We mean neurotypi- cal, we mean oriented to interaction with other humans, we mean almost exclusively tuned to human language. “Most people attend to human voices above all else” (Krumins qtd. in Miller 2003, 23).
When the orientation toward the world does not privilege the human voice—or the human face—a diagnosis of “mindblindness” too often en- sues. The concept of mindblindness is described by Simon Baron-Cohen as an “inability to develop an awareness of what is in the mind of another
human” (1995; my emphasis). For Simon Baron-Cohen and his many fol- lowers, there remains the firm belief that when there is limited attendance to the human, when the parsing of the environment does not explicitly focus on the human, what is demonstrated is a failure to be truly human. He writes: “Imagine what your world would be like if you were aware of physical things but were blind to the existence of mental things. I mean, of course, blind to things like thoughts, beliefs, knowledge, desires, and intentions, which for most of us self-evidently underlie behavior. Stretch your imagination to consider what sense you could make of human action (or, for that matter, any animate action whatsoever) if, as for a behaviorist, a mentalistic explanation was forever beyond your limits” (1995, 1).
Baron Cohen’s argument is that the autistic cannot bridge the worlds of the physical and the imaginary. The reason the autistic cannot do this is that they cannot put themselves in the position of another to “imagine or represent states that we or others might hold” (1995, 2). This, because the autistic does not manage to convey the complexity of his or her perception to the attending psychologist, neuroscientist, medical doctor, or academic, within a controlled environment that in many cases does not even begin to attend to his or her needs. From this comes the still far too dominant assumption that the autistic is categorically incapable of relation and em- pathy, the assumption that the autistic cannot experience feelings or states that concern another human. And, as we well know, without empathy you are not considered truly human.
What those who uphold this approach refuse to understand is that in the theater of individuation that is the autistic spectrum, communication does not unfold in ways that make general categorizations about perception pos- sible. Views such as those of Baron-Cohen are based on a kind of scenario that tends to focus solely on human-human interaction, emphasizing those limits of perception that can easily be mapped, such as the direct commu- nication through language between two humans or the ability, in language, to articulate the limits of a relationship. As Daina Krumins and many others have made clear, however, the autistic dwells in an ecology of practices that creates resonances across scales and registers of life, both organic and in- organic, not solely in the so-called human realm. “Everything [is] somewhat alive,” Daina Krumins writes, “I attend to everything the same way with no discrimination, so that the caw of the crow in the tree is as clear and im- portant as the voice of the person I’m walking with” (qtd. in Miller 2003, 86–87).
How to reconcile the urgency of “everything is alive,” the entranced and unhierarchized commitment to the interweaving of the organic and the in- organic, the fascination with color, sound, texture, the “aroundness” of the world Ralph Savarese notes is ever present in autistic Tito Mukhopadhyay’s writing, how to reconcile these with the medicalized view that, due to au- tistics’ perceived incapacity to articulate their relation to other humans at the exclusion of the wider ecologies that co-compose the world, they are in- herently mindblind and therefore unrelational? How to reconcile the com- plex dance of attention that is autistic perception with the claim of their inattention to life (understood, of course, as an inattention to the life of the human)?
In the annals of autism pathologization, the diagnosis of mindblindness comes about in a caricatured encounter that goes something like this: An anxious parent takes his child to the doctor. The parent has noticed that the child is not developing according to the norm. The child has either never spoken or has lost what speech was acquired, does not look at or seem to attend to the parent, repeats tasks with a perseveration that seems to border on obsession, demonstrates difficulty with activation and inhibition, and suffers from intense tantrums.2 The doctor takes the situation in hand by attempting to attract the child’s attention in order to see whether the child can indeed communicate. When the child seems to refuse to attend to the doctor—by neither playing with the toys nor looking the doctor in the eye— the child is typically characterized as “unresponsive,” and the parent is sent home with a diagnosis that the child is on the autistic spectrum, a diagnosis too often considered to be the death knell of the potential for a meaningful relationship between parent and child.
Tito Mukhopadhyay, a classical autistic who writes brilliantly and, at twenty-one, is the author of three books, The Mind Tree, The Gold of the Sun- beams, and How Can I Talk If My Lips Don’t Move, tells the tale from his side, emphasizing the disconnect built into the practice of diagnosis.
“Does he flap his hands all the time?” the clinical psychologist in a Cal- cutta hospital asked Mother. . . . I chose to stand in the corner between two glass doors, so that I could see as many reflections of my flapping hands as possible through the glass. . . . I wanted to continue seeing the reflections of that wonder room through the glass doors. I was invited several times to approach all those blocks and toys that were now laid on the table and do something with them. . . . I could do anything I wanted
with them, so that the clinical psychologist could record it in her obser- vation chart. . . . And each time I was brought near the table, I would go back to stand in front of the cupboards. How could I tell them that the shadows and reflections made me feel secure? (2008, 28)
What is sidestepped in the pathologization of autism as mindblindness by the likes of Baron-Cohen is the different modality of relational emphasis Mukhopadhyay evokes here. It’s not that Mukhopadhyay is suffering from a lack of relation, it’s that he is not interacting according to standard human- centered expectations, consumed as he is by the ecology of what is unfold- ing around him. This ecology is not an object per se—though it may appear as though an autistic child is indeed consumed by an object. It is less a thing-in-itself that captures Mukhopadhyay’s attention than it is an inten- sive shaping, a complex relational matrix, a milieu of light, color, move- ment, sound, and social context.
Does this attunement to life as an incipient ecology of practices, an ecology that does not privilege the human but attends to the more than human, demonstrate a lack of empathy? Asked about his capacity to feel empathy in the context of a miner trapped in a mine, Mukhopadhyay writes:
It’s true that when I think of the situation, there may be empathy. But my empathy would probably be towards the flashlight batteries of those trapped coal miners if there happens to be a selection on my part. Or my empathy would perhaps be towards the trapped air around those coal miners. There would be me watching through the eyes of the flashlight cell the utter hopelessness of those unfortunate miners as my last chemi- cals struggled to glow the faint bulb so that I didn’t leave them dying in darkness. As the air around them, I would try to find a way to let myself squeeze every bit of oxygen I have to allow the doomed lungs to breathe, for I am responsible for their doom. And while I found myself trapped, I would smell the burning rice being cooked with neglect in an earthen pot. (Mukhopadhyay and Savarese 2010)
Empathy not explicitly for or toward the human, but with the world in its emergence. An ethics of relation.
While I do not want to underestimate the complex motor and neuro- logical challenges that accompany autism, and would rather not fall into the trap warned against by Amanda Baggs—“If we were real people, people would see us as individuals, rather than heroes, tragedies, inspirations,
or representatives of our entire impairment group”3—I want to propose that autistic perception, in its divergent, complex, and continually evolv- ing forms, may open the way for an ethic of the more than human urgently needed today, focusing as it does not on the macrolevel of preimposed moral systems such as human-centered empathy, but on an ecology of practices, a focus that emphasizes hyperrelationality and dynamic expres- sion in a worlding that is co-constitutive. With Amanda Baggs, Tito Mukho- padhyay, Sue Rubin, Larry Bissonnette, DJ Savarese, and so many others who have been (mis)classified as “low functioning autistics” yet are clearly “highly functioning” in their insight about disability, language, the body, poetry, politics, and life, I would like to suggest that autistic perception pro- vides a window into an ethics of relation sorely needed today, an ethics that is concerned with the associated milieu of relation and the protopolitics it calls forth.4
Like all bodies, but perhaps more experientially so, the autistics’ body is always already more than one, expressive not in its parts but across the registers of its emergence in co-constituting spacetimes of experience. Re- lation comes to expression before a body-as-such reveals itself, the body not so much an afterthought or a priori as “with-thought,” implicit in co- compositional emergence. For many autistics the body does not feel pre- composed, with preordained roles: it travels, shifting, changing, recompos- ing with events of experience. “Autism,” writes Tito Mukhopadhyay about himself, “was making him feel that his voice was a distant substance that was required to be collected and put somewhere in his throat” (2002, 52). “My voice comes from my stomach. It is centrifuged” (Mukhopadhyay qtd. in Iversen 2006, 243). For many autistics, it is a real challenge to locate a single organ or limb in a mélange of fields of relation, fields composed of complex networks of sounds, colors, textures, of object-body-environment composites, and bring it to expression through a single predetermined path.5 It seems almost impossible to subtract from the polyphonous multi- plicity of sensation.
“I don’t have many buffers,” writes Amanda Baggs. “To me the world comes in such great detail that it is hard for me to put the easy interpreta- tions on it that most people use; the way they divide it into pieces and make it abstract is foreign to me” (2010b). For autistics all along the spectrum, the world seems to emerge directly in all of its relational complexity with few immediate buffers to compartmentalize it. Added to the constantly agi- tating relational environment is the fact that sense modalities are overlap-
ping, crossed in ways that make lived experience even more challenging to convey.
To manage the theater of individuation of everyday life with its pano- ply of sensorial and perceptual emphases, and its unrelenting synesthesia, many autistics speak of needing to redirect experience through a specific sense modality. For Tito Mukhopadhyay, for instance, sound is the modality of choice for the reduction of sensory chaos: “I concentrate on the sound of water falling because I am more sensitive to sounds. . . . I have developed my hearing better than my other senses. I have learned to be comfortable that way because trying to use all my senses turns into a total chaos” (qtd. in Iversen 2006, 69–70).
When the senses are as acute and as complexly entwined as they are with autism, it can be very difficult to partition the environment from its sensa- tions. Amanda Baggs explains:
I was pouring water from a large bucket, onto an electric fence. I slowly realized something was different—no, bad—no, very bad—and hang on, it seems to be in the vicinity. And colored bright white, and . . . oh yeah, painful, and pain has something to do with my body (???), yeah it does, but where on my body, . . . , . . . , . . . , . . . , . . . , arm. My arm is a part of me. Let me turn my eyes on. Now look at my arm. Stuff on my arm. Stuff . . . water. Where is the water going? Fence. Electric . . . oh. Better stop this. Where’s the arm again? Got to move it. (Wait for those instructions to mosey down into my arm.) There. Phew.6
What is happening here is complex in ways theories of mindblindness can- not even begin to comprehend. For Baggs, as for all of the autistics I have encountered and about whom I write here, there is no clear separation be- tween the world and the body. World and body are startlingly, painfully, exquisitely, processually one. This is what autism in all of its complexity brings to the project of Always More Than One: it demonstrates that there is a modality of life-living that intimately knows the richness of the more-than, and that this modality dominates in autistics. Not only that: these autistics politicize the role the more-than plays in their experience by insisting that they do not want to be cured of this perceptual gift, no matter how difficult it can make their lives in a so-called neurotypical society. And, with this ex- pression of the necessity for the more-than, they remind us that there are key questions and concerns that need to be addressed about the place of the human in human-centered experience.
Worlding
To articulate the ontogenetic worlding of experience—to make the jump into language that is so vital to inclusion in everyday life—it is necessary to hone a modality of subtraction. Subtraction from the chaos of hypersensory stimulation is a central aspect of all experience: it is what allows many of us to tune out the deafening music while we are having a conversation, or to abstract meaning from rhythm when listening to a piece of writing. For those, however, for whom this kind of subtraction proves difficult (if not impossible), there can be a sense of deep loss associated with parsing out certain aspects of experience from others. For the parsing out of sensation from experience entails a loss of relational potential. Amanda Baggs often mourns this. But, as autistic writing has shown, this can also be less a dead- ening of experience than an enlivening of it by other means.
The writing I will focus on here is largely what Ralph Savarese (2012) calls “autie-type,” which he describes as “the spontaneous production of figurative language that occurs when Autist, facilitator and computer come together in the act of communication.”7 For autistics on the “classical” end of the spectrum, where motor-control issues make the voice difficult to access, communication is often restricted to typing, which tends to ne- cessitate a facilitator, as seen in the encounter with DJ at the SenseLab in the interlude “Fiery, Luminous, Scary.” Savarese coins the concept of autie- type to emphasize that this modality of writing is a genre in its own right, an intrinsically relational way of thinking and communicating.8 Savarese believes that this relational quality in the composing has a role to play in what we have come to see as the exquisite poetic voices autistics have col- lectively honed. Theirs is a relational writing, he argues, a writing that acti- vates the associated milieu not simply of environmentality but of words themselves—a worlding in words.
Savarese writes:
For decades it has been assumed that Autistics are the victims of an obdurate literality, which leaves them baffled by figurative language. While this may be the case with ‘high-functioning’ Autistics or those with Asperger syndrome, it is not with classical Autistics. The published writings of DJ Savarese, Tito Mukhopadhyay, Amanda Baggs, Jamie Burke, and Larry Bissonnette, to name just a few, reveal how metaphori- cal the “severely” autistic can be. Indeed, they are compulsively so and not simply when they are writing poems. . . . Only recently have some of
these Autistics been exposed to creative writing instruction, and the re- sults have been nothing short of spectacular.9
In the poetic language of classical autism, language is a sensing practice in its own right—a field of affective tonality activated in rhythms and tones, in speeds and intensities. Here, the turn toward expression does not cut itself off from the experiential vastness of sensation and perception but writes with them. A language in the moving makes itself felt: “yes. dearest sad dad you heard fresh self and freshly responded deserting your fears and just freed sad dear saved me. yes. yes. yes. yes” (DJ Savarese).10 Expression here makes felt the agitation that resonates at the very edges of expressibility. The result: language becomes force of expression, the more-than of subtrac- tion. We hear language dance in new and singular ways with adjectives and adverbs modifying the situation rather than simply the nouns, we hear with the force of qualifiers intensities never before articulated quite this way, we hear voices being given to the fields of relation, to objects-becoming-fields, rather than simply to individuals. “Larry is mighty proud to movie star you people of lipsticked words of appreciation loving our movie mouthing off at our mostly poor jokes is fine voting for us as people magazine worthy.”11 “Hours of light like heat hibernate/great icebergs hear the cries of the hurt” (DJ Savarese qtd. in Ralph Savarese, forthcoming).
Writing the more-than is to feel-with the world as it comes to expres- sion, to feel-with the bare activity of wor(l)ding. For Whitehead, every occa- sion of experience is composed of feelings. These feelings fold through the affective tonality—the concern—of the event in its emergence. They arise not from the subject per se but from the field of relation itself. Every world- ing—every prehension, every grasping-with the world—is a feeling, in Whiteheadian terms. An event is a composition of feelings selected from the panoply of potential, a complex of affective tonality agitating toward actualization. No occasion of experience can be abstracted from its feeling: “The feelings are inseparable from the end at which they aim; and this end is the feeler” (Whitehead 1978, 339). The feeler is the subject of the experi- ence, a subject that is in every way immanent to the event.
Feeling-with implies that the event has a concern for how it comes to emergence. Autie-type takes this concern for the event in its emergence to heart: the writing never seems to be separate from the ethics of relation it calls forth. This ethics of relation is the attentiveness, in the event, to its re- lational matrix, to the how of its composition, making language the beck-
oning field of what a feeling has felt, expressing this feeling in a modality that remains, even while fully intelligible, quasi-ineffable.
What is significant about autie-type is that autistics come to this kind of poetic writing intuitively. It is not learned or honed. The affective tonality that runs through it seems to be distinctively linked to the direct percep- tion of the more-than experienced in everyday life. They write autistic perception. As Ralph Savarese writes: “With Tito, language steps lightly, provisionally; it neither masters nor replaces the object it names” (Mukho- padhyay and Savarese 2010). Rather than undoing itself completely of the complexity of the ineffable of what William James calls pure experience— experience at the very edge of the actual where it still resonates with virtu- ality—autie-type makes it felt. Rather than disconnecting from the field of relation, it bridges it, conceptually, propositionally. This allows autistics to bring to expression the complex subtleties of the dance of attention that is at the heart of all incipient becomings. To bring this dance of attention to articulation is probably the biggest challenge any writer will face, as lan- guage invariably involves a certain sum of representation. To write-with language in the making is to dance-with experience rather than to exclude it from the dance.
The dance of attention of experience in the worlding is brought to ex- pression by autistics in an infinity of ways. What much of the writing has in common, however, is its capacity to make felt the intensity of attending, of participating in a worlding that never stops dancing. “Attempts to freshly respond to humans were terrifying quests through killer trees. Where I sent my real self, reasonable, easy breathing, satisfying humans never could find me” (DJ Savarese qtd. in Savarese, forthcoming). The writing is a play of rhythm and image, a relational movement of incipient becomings expres- sive in a toward that is not linear but diagrammatic, intensely phasing, topologically orienting: “Sadness drew the trees together. Wasted, freaky actions took over my arms. The trees desired to feast upon me” (DJ Savarese qtd. in Savarese, forthcoming). In autie-type, it is as though the complex process of subtraction becomes strangely palpable, as though the uneasi- ness of the more-than surfaces in the breaks, the pauses, the punctuation, in the rhythm and the metaphor. How, in the intensity of an incipient dia- grammatic praxis, how to select, asks the writing? How to move expressi- bility into and across the metastable field of attention’s dance? How to make words world? “Part loving person, part plant I kid people. Only the
kids who look beyond loud noises hear my real self” (DJ Savarese qtd. in Savarese 2007).12
Selection is always immanent to the event. Registers of expression and expressibility are key to the complexity of this process. Before the event concresces into its subjective form, it is alive in its felt potential but not yet determinate as this or that. At this stage of the process, the charge of poten- tial (the preindividual) coursing through the individuation makes itself felt as the agitation of incipient expressibility. There is not yet expression. Only once the event stabilizes into this or that is there expression as such. This expression gives voice to the subtraction. Yet, as mentioned above, subtrac- tion always carries a share of the more-than co-constituted in the coming- to-act of the occasion. What autie-type demonstrates is that writing can attend to this incipient expressibility even as it begins to be overshadowed by the delimitations of expression. It does so by activating, in the writing, an affective tonality that opens language to the more-than of its expressi- bility. In autie-type, metaphor is key to this, but not metaphor as a linkage on the representational stratum13—metaphor as a mobility of relations in the making: “The choice of metaphoric vehicles is striking; notice how dis- parate the things compared are. One might be tempted to accuse this Autie of engaging in mixed metaphors, so quickly do the analogies, both implicit and explicit, come. But the point seems to be a world reconnected, a world included, on the level of sensory perception,” writes Ralph Savarese (forth- coming). The metaphors move relationality across strata of expressibility, less metaphors in the strict sense than mobile architectings of expression- meets-expressibility: “Yes, the trees are rewarding to look at now. They partly shade the house I live in now. The kind looking tree plots to grow taller. Opening my dear self, I hear my mom call my name. It looks like the sun has moved to the front of the house as I plot my response. Resting hints freely that the green grass grows” (DJ Savarese qtd. in Savarese, forth- coming).
What courses through autie-type might be named prearticulation, the incipient more-than of expression. Like its movement-cousin preaccelera- tion, prearticulation is about the virtual field of expressibility that precedes (or follows) expression as such. It is the feltness of language in the moving, before the saying, between the words. It can be gesture, rhythm, movement. It can be laughter, stuttering. It can be silence. From sensation to experi- ence, from relation to perception, from feeling to writing, prearticulation makes felt how the more-than of expression—expressibility—accompanies
language in the making. Prearticulation does not express some thing, or some body, it expresses-with. The proposition: there is no language that does not carry its share of prearticulation.
Foregrounding the share of expressibility within expression and shifting the register of experience toward articulation in language does not neces- sarily mean reducing experience to representation, and certainly does not mean undoing it of affective tonality. Language can remain expressive, can embody the more-than—this is what autie-type demonstrates so well. In fact, the foregrounding of language’s capacity to participate in an emer- gent, co-composing dance of attention is a gift autistics—like other word- smiths—bring to writing.
Making felt the more-than of expression in writing might be called composing-with. Composing-with does have its pitfalls: “When I heard the word banana while I was looking at a cloud, I labelled the cloud banana. Education, though, helped me settle my dispute with nouns” (Mukhopadh- yay and Savarese 2010). Composing-with does not preclude misunderstand- ings, misthinkings, missayings: “What use are the feelings, when you do not know how to feel them? And the mind thinks another ‘apple.’ The body does a ‘banana’ ” (Mukhopadhyay qtd. in Iversen 2006, 96). Beyond the con- tent of the utterance—its most bare communicability—composing-with makes felt the collective breath of the more-than in the saying, makes heard the fragility of expressibility in it tuning to expression. Composing-with makes felt the more-than of experience in the telling.
For some autistics, language remains a frustration, however. Amanda Baggs has written about this on many occasions. Despite being an excellent writer, she often finds that words cannot get at the heart of the more-than she directly experiences, which makes language a continuous problem. She writes: “The way my thoughts work creates some . . . problems for language. And it’s not just that I haven’t found the absolute best combination of words to translate my thoughts with. It’s that on a fundamental level the thoughts don’t translate.”14 For Baggs, there is a sense that language just does not get to the complexity of worlding she would like to convey. While all of us deal with the impossibility of translation between modalities of experience, for autistics the challenge is exacerbated by perceptual/sensory overload and motor activation issues, both of which can make it difficult to use language as a trusted tool for communication.15 Added to this is their unpalatable ex- perience of having been too often “spoken for” with the assumption that if they don’t use speech to communicate they have nothing to say. Writing of
the frustration of being ignored when he does not immediately respond to a statement or a query, DJ Savarese explains that for him “the words [often] come too late,” urging interlocutors to be patient.
Composing-with offers a different perspective on language, opening the play of wor(l)ding across registers of perception, sensation, and affect, acti- vating language’s inherent capacity to write-with the edges of pure experi- ence. It also signals to something else. Facilitated communication depends on the presence of the facilitator. The role the facilitator plays is different depending on the individual and can range from their simply being in the room to them holding the end of a pencil while the autistic types to having a hand on his or her elbow or shoulder. As suggested earlier, facilitated communication brings out the relational aspect of language and challenges us to wonder why we tend to consider language—and writing in particu- lar—to be so inherently solitary. This has long been one of the critiques of facilitated communication: that the necessity of the facilitator’s presence suggests that the autistic is in fact incapable of “really” using language— that is, of thinking or writing “independently.” This despite several careful studies of cases where the autistic is tested in the presence of a facilitator who does not actually touch him or her, and despite the fact that there is clearly a genre of writing that can be attributed to autistics that is very much their own—autie-type—not only among communities in the United States and Canada but across the world.16
To compose-with is to place language within an ecology of practices. It is to think-with in the time of the utterance’s becoming-expression. To compose-with is to collectively write time in the shaping.17 Soma Mukho- padhyay, who facilitated her son Tito’s entry into language through a method she calls rapid prompting, emphasizes his strange relationship to time. Even with language, she suggests, her son continues to have an un- usual relationship to time: he experiences intense anxiety because he is in- capable of anticipating what comes next. Tito Mukhopadhyay’s experience of the world, even as he is capable of articulately composing-with literary pasts and futures, continues to dwell in the now of experience in the making (Iversen 2006, 143). This suggests that language does not necessarily pro- duce a sensation of time in itself, even as it gives time to the shaping of ex- perience. Language awakens the potential of multiplications of expressibil- ity—“As I began to type, my mind began to wake up” (Sue Rubin)—giving a duration to expression that favors a certain notion of intelligibility, but it does not entirely overwrite the complexity of experience.18 In giving voice
to experience, it structures time, but within that structure there remains a tinge of the virtual stratum of polyphonous indefiniteness which is pure ex- perience. Language is both more-than and less-than: it brings to expression the world in time even as it agitates the complex timeless interminglings of pure experience.
As more-than and less-than, language is a two-edged sword, particularly for autism activists who want the radicality of their difference across mo- dalities of expression and perception to be respected in the name of neuro- diversity.19 For them, the constraint language places on ideals of inter- action—including the expectation of eye-contact20—often excludes them from social encounters even if they can speak or write. They also rightly feel that any engagement with expressibility outside or beyond language as such is deemed secondary and, too often, irrelevant. “If I [don’t] interact with [the] much more limited set of responses [of spoken language] they judge my existence, awareness and personhood,” explains Amanda Baggs in her video In My Language.21 The autistic who does not speak or write in the language of the human—according to human mores of interaction—is quickly relegated to the position of living in “a world of their own,” a world considered far less rich: “Far from being purposeless, the way that I move is an ongoing response to what is around me. Ironically, the way that I move when responding to everything around me is described as ‘being in a world of my own,’ whereas if I interact with a much more limited set of responses and only react to a much more limited part of my surroundings people claim that I am ‘opening up to true interaction with the world.’ ”22 It is human lan- guage in the form of exclusively human-to-human interaction, more than anything else, that seems to function as the bridge to intelligence and, by consequence, to offer inclusion to the realm of the neurotypical.
As I mentioned above using the example of Sue Rubin, when autistics learn to write or speak, they are often said to have “awakened” into lan- guage. While in Rubin’s case she is referring to an ability to bridge expressi- bility with expression, when the term is used with the notion of “coming back” it becomes very problematic. “Coming back” depends on the idea that without language, existence is barely human. “Dov seemed to be dem- onstrating a level of intelligence that I had never suspected or dreamed he might possess,” writes Portia Iversen about her son’s coming into language. “I could barely begin to comprehend what this meant. . . . It meant that he was not retarded. It meant that he’d been in there . . . all these years. I could barely keep from crying” (2006, 290; my emphasis).
“Coming back” relies on the idea that language as the model of human- to-human interaction is the passport to a human life worth living. With- out language, the presupposition is that the child dwells in nothingness from which he or she must be saved. When language is thus understood as the basis for meaningful existence, it situates autistics without language outside of the realm of meaningful experience. Catherine Maurice, whose children—like many others—were diagnosed with autism after an initial entry into language, refers to her children’s loss of language as a “descent” into autism, making autism synonymous with the loss of her children: “this autism thing was taking over the very essence of who Anne-Marie was. . . . Stripped of our illusions, we found Anne-Marie to be suddenly alien” (1993, 31, 46).23 Maurice clearly sees her daughter’s loss of language and withdrawal as the loss of her humanity—without language she has lost her essence and has become alien: “The mornings brought no relief. She never called me. . . . ‘Good morning, sweetheart!’ I called out. She didn’t even turn her head. Suddenly I sat down on the floor, back against the wall. ‘That’s not Anne-Marie,’ I whispered” (1993, 57). The race against time to reclaim the child for the pleasures of a human-centered universe secures the dichotomy between the neurotypical—who owns language and with it the facility of human contact—and the neurodiverse, for whom language— and, of course, empathy and relationality—is absent: “I was in a race against time,” Catherine Maurice writes after her daughter Anne-Marie’s diagnosis, “and either I found someone or something that truly helped or I had lost Anne-Marie forever. It was as simple as that. There is something about aut- ism that to me gave meaning to the phrase ‘death in life.’ Autism is an im- possible condition of being there and not being there; a person without a self; a life without a soul” (1993, 57).
“Coming back” to language and composing-with language represent two very different perspectives. “Coming back” refers to an ideal of com- munication that relies on a humanist individualist model which disregards the complex ecology of autistic perception.24 Within the trope of “coming back,” there is little appreciation for any kind of wor(l)ding that does not mimic the most normative neurotypical type of language interaction.
Composing-with, on the other hand, suggests a commitment to making the pure experience of the more-than of expression felt. This is an eco- logical approach to language. It does not seek to delimit or deny the com- plexities (and unsayabilities) of expressibility. Rather, it addresses the full-
ness of autistic experience, adding to it another modality: words. Maurice’s approach to “coming back” to language is quite the opposite. Within her model, everything that connects to autism is dangerous and is, as a result, denied. For this reason, in the behavioral therapy she claims “cured” her children, consistent effort was made to distract Anne-Marie and Michel from any kind of daydreaming (being “lost in space”) that appeared “autis- tic.” During therapeutic sessions, the children were also repeatedly made to look into the aide’s eyes (and later the mother’s eyes), even if this meant forcefully holding their chin. They were also discouraged from engaging in any kind of rhythmic repetitions of language or echolalia that might be associated with parroting or stimming on a word.
“Coming back” is about locating the child in a universe compatible with a much more limited notion of experience and communication. It is there- fore far from the “awakening” experienced by Sue Rubin through language. For it lacks sensitivity to neurodiversity and the richness of radical differ- ence, and of course backgrounds a long history of what makes language rich within the realm of the literary and the poetic.
Language is a double-edged sword. While autistics like Amanda Baggs want language to be de-emphasized so that the fullness of other kinds of ex- perience can better be appreciated, there is a keen appreciation among au- tistics that without spoken or written language it can be excruciatingly diffi- cult to be heard. For the modality of expression of the neurotypical tends to be language. Language is key to inclusion and, as such, to the opportunity to participate in a world that does not label you “retarded.” “Realize that I have lots on my mind and lots to say,” writes DJ Savarese (2010) in a piece called “Communicate with Me.” “What can you do to help me? The answer is communicate with me. Boldly reach out to me, and together we will gold- enly share our views of the world we long to greet.”
I wonder whether this tension within language is partly what moves au- tistics to be so creative in their use of it, inviting as so many of them do the poetic voice to be multiply embodied in the writing, activating registers of feeling that allow us to glimpse the prearticulating more-than of expression in-forming.25 The result is a writing that continuously astonishes, a writing with a precision and a sharpness that hits at the core of preconceptions of the role signification and denotation play in language. Expressing the force of what language can do, making apparent how prearticulation cuts across signification even as it allies itself with it, autie-type travels across denota-
tion to invent with the more-than that is at the heart of composing-with. As Larry Bissonnette writes, “I am seriously past learning swimming in the shallow end of the pool of language” (Savarese 2012).
While prearticulation is a forerunner to language, it also weaves into language’s unfolding. Words are never just what they seem to mean: they dance, they gallop, they rest, they tune in or out, they call forth and efface. However they express, the incipiency of expressibility accompanies them, even if radically backgrounded. This force of expressibility within expres- sion agitates language as its articulatory edge. When thus pushed to its limit, language makes felt on the strata of shared communication the alive- ness of the associated milieu of relation. It recasts the myth that communi- cation is simply the organization and transmission of content fully-formed. It generates a definition of the communicative as the fragile sharing of the ineffable in the nowness of experience in the making. Writing as the bring- ing to expression of wonder.
There is of course wonder and communication without language. What language does is tweak communicative potential toward human intelligi- bility. The expressive strands of movement or texture, of color or sound, shift as they meet word configurations and together with the affective tonality of worlds folding into expression, they create new rhythms, new urgencies, new environments.26 But keep in mind: an “awakening” toward communication in language is but one step of a much more complex rela- tional process. This one step does open doors, does create an opportunity to be heard, but it is the quality of composing-with that really makes the dif- ference, because it is here that language begins to participate in the matrix of the more than human, that language begins to be heard from the edges of experience in-forming.
Amanda Baggs’s activism is squarely located within these complex poli- tics of language: her work of many years within the disability community has often focused on language’s implicit relationship to everything neuro- typical, especially the neurotypical tendency to place the (speaking) human at the center of all experience.
Baggs consistently challenges categorizations of personhood associated with language acquisition and “passing” in the neurotypical world. For Baggs, language is both that which facilitates an understanding of radical difference and that which dangerously restricts this same difference from being valued as such, subtracting as language does from the wealth of rela- tion that is pure experience. “I don’t quite have words for this” is a common
complaint of hers, and yet more words, more ways of composing, always follow. Take this as an example: “There are so many injustices, large and small, that affect autistic people. None of them are divorced from the in- justices that happen to others. None of them are unique. Autistic people are not a special kind of people set apart from all other people. We are just one of many kinds of people, and oppression and injustice take depressingly familiar shapes. My task here is to scale the cliffs of language and shout up to you the pattern of one or more injustices” (Baggs 2010a). Here, the in- effable more-than of composing-with is heard, and felt. We are drawn into the cadence of what at first seems like a straightforward set of problems to cliffs of language and patterns of injustices. We are pulled into a world that is actively shaping around the more-than of denotation.
Patterns are a key concept here. Amanda Baggs calls the ineffable more- than of experience “patterns.” Patterns are neither symbols nor categories as Baggs defines them. “I mean things fitting together in certain ways, outside of me,” she writes. “I mean perceiving connections without force- fitting a set of thoughts on top of them” (Baggs 2010a). While Baggs argues that patterns are precisely what is inexpressible in language, I would sug- gest that in the realm of composing-with, these very patterns make their way into language as the more-than of expressibility that is prearticulation. They populate expression at the edge of its intelligibility. The pattern is a field of force, a “manner,” as Whitehead would say, rather than a “matter” of becoming. Whitehead writes: “The manner of a pattern is the individual essence of the pattern. But no individual essence is realizable apart from some of its potentialities of relationship, that is, apart from its relational essence” (1978, 115). In language, the more-than of expressibility—the pat- tern—is transduced into a matter for articulation or, as Whitehead would say, a “matter of fact.” Contrast is how the matter for articulation actual- izes: contrast spurs the subtraction. It fields pattern: “the realization of the pattern is through the realization of this contrast” (Whitehead 1978, 115). The “realization” of actualization does not replace the pattern: contrast sub- tracts from the resonant field of patterning even as it holds the resonance of the pattern in quasi-appearance. Contrast is contrast precisely because it is more-than the sum of its complexly divergent parts. Contrast brings to expression how the actual is also, to some degree, a field of vibratory poten- tial in-act.
Pattern and contrast coevolve in the affective tunings of language in the making. Contrast spurs articulation through its selection for emphasis,
each contrast the fielding of an incipient patterning. Where pattern is affec- tive tonality, contrast is affective attunement.
For Baggs the frustration with patterns as regards language is their “un- translatability.” She writes: “Words are forming at the surface / While in here they make no sense / Patterns forming losing meaning / No way still to comprehend / Standing in the shattered fragments / Language falling all around.”27 Patterns cannot be translated because they are not yet articulated within structures of meaning. They are affective tonalities on the cusp of articulation. Pushing pattern prematurely into language causes the intense disturbance of “sense” Amanda Baggs foregrounds, with “language falling all around,” conspicuously incapable of making sense of the ineffable more- than. And yet, as autie-type demonstrates, there is also more to language, a more-than that can bring into act the very complexities we all tend to find difficult to express in words.
Contrast cuts through the collective agitations of sense-making and parses their becoming-language into an intelligibility. It articulates poly- phasing expressibility even while it subtracts for definite sayability. Con- trast transduces. To transduce in this context is to write-with the shifting of registers of intelligibility, thereby creating new processes for the co- composing of signification and affective tonality.
Thought plays a key role here. Once more, consider thought less as that which inhabits the register of language than as that which fields pre- articulation. Thought in the feeling, in the moving. Thought in the pre- accelerating is a certain kind of enabling constraint (recall choreographic thinking), albeit not necessarily at the level of language: think of a move- ment of thought, of the articulating of movement in a thinking that is co- constitutive with an environment bodying. Thought understood this way is a selected pathway through which experience unfolding begins to express itself. In a tuning toward language, thought regathers its force for expressi- bility not to translate the field of relation it in-gathers but to transduce it into a coming-to-expression. This coming-to-expression cannot be reiter- ated exactly the same way twice: its quality of more-than will remain in act.28 There is no adequate verb tense for thought. Thought is the immanent articulating-with of feeling in-forming. It is the more-than of language in the making, a future pastness that conditions the opportunity for expres- sion on a different register. Thought prearticulating in the fullness of its agi- tation is what we taste when we hear Bissonnette’s words—“Without art, wafting smells of earth’s pleasures would kite away to land of inanimate ob-
jects, so it’s past point of personal hobby.” Thought is a patterning, a “rich and varied form of communication in [its] own right, not [an] inadequate substitute for the more standard forms of communication” (Baggs 2010a). Thought, as Baggs (2010a) suggests, “take[s] place so quietly they can barely notice it’s there,” activating, with the force of immanent relationality, “the much more direct relationships, connections, and patterns formed be- tween one thing and another.” These “quiet thoughts,” as Baggs calls them, are distinct from “loud over-thoughts” that precipitate experience toward the realm of expectation, the realm of content, the realm of the already- said. Quiet thoughts are forces for the thinking-with, forces that move a body-worlding, that open the more-than to a perception in the making that always exceeds its own framing. Thought is the withness of the object- environment-milieu beckoning in a feeling-with that co-composes the ani- mate and the inanimate across complex scales of experience. The resonance
of this composition—its vibrancy—is the how of thought-thinking.
Thought-thinking is always in the register of feeling, and, as such, it is not yet object- or human-oriented. Everything is still agitating, co-composing, across strata of expressibility. Thought in the feeling is allied to the force of the concept. Think the concept here, as do Deleuze and Guattari, not as that which gives order to thought but as that which opens thought to its outside, making available within the register of thought-thinking the force of move- ment. In its attunement to language it is therefore never the case that what is said is a replication of thought. The saying is a movement of thought that abstracts from the complex relation of thought-feeling. The saying is the activation of a concept itself in movement that is always more-than content. Swimming beyond the shallow end of language means composing-with language’s prearticulations, its rhythms, its silences, its jumps in register. Composing-with this beyond means making mobile the inexpressibility of the more-than in the nowness of articulation. “The closer you get to the heart of things, the more words fall apart. First they get shaky. Then they start contradicting each other or getting paradoxical. Then they just fall apart, dissolve, vanish.”29 The dissolving, vanishing, falling apart of words even as they are crafted, this is language in the making. It is what spurs us to read between the words—“But if you look between the words (not the same as between the lines), rather than at them, you can start to see things far more interesting than the words themselves.”30 Reading between the words is to attend to the interval where expressibility continues to shape expres- sion, where the ineffable continues to caress the evolution of meaning in
the fielding of the paradoxical ecologies of language and pure experience. Here, thought transduces, patterning expression in the activation of con- trast, making language collective.
The making-collective of language is an ethics. Think-with, feel-with, autie-type says. Experience the force of expression. Compose-with, partici- pate at the edge of meaning where language no longer holds together. Learn to listen across registers. Dance the dance of attention of polyphonous ex- pressibility.
The between of words is what is continuously at stake not only in the lan- guage of autism but in all language. For the between emphasizes the inher- ent collectivity of language, its share in body-worlding. Language is always collective, the between tells us—it activates fields of relation, it patterns for contrast, it connects in the milieu of experience’s unfolding. Language is not separate from the ecologies of practice through which it expresses. All writing, all speaking, is a collective individuation. Dawn Prince (2010) writes: “if a thing existed, it existed as a living part of language and had a deep understanding of its place in the vibrations of speech, in the vibrations of experience.” Language is not an accessory to experience.
Language operates in an ecology that includes at once the realm of atten- tion in the event, expressibility, expression, and comprehension. These can- not be abstracted from one another. Language is the collective individua- tion of sense across strata of intelligibility and inexpressibility. It is not “about”—not about the individual, about being, about sensation, about ex- perience—it is sensation in the forming, between the words. “Signification is not being but between beings, or rather across them: it is transindividual” (Simondon 2005, 307).
The transindividual in the writing that is beyond being activates wonder. Wonder: when language begins to move with the ripples of what can only be felt in the saying. The language of Tito Mukhopadhyay, of DJ Savarese and Amanda Baggs, of Larry Bissonnette and Sue Rubin, of Dawn Prince and so many others activates the wonder that is the thinking-with of the co-composed more-than. It worlds in an ecology that is co-constitutive of its expressibility. It generates registers of experience. It activates realms of emergence and relation even as it brings them to the edge of intelligibility. This language of wonder is with, not about. It exists across, in the thinking- feeling. And it worlds, refusing to categorically distinguish between forms and forces. Instead, it caresses, it captures, it distorts, to create expressi- bilities anew. Human, object, environment, tone, color, sound, what makes
its way into communication is not first and foremost the monadic nature of forms but the transversal forces of the as-yet-unthought in the thinking.