The Immanence of the Finite in the Multitude
In the realm of pure experience—the virtual pole of the edge of experi- ence in-forming—the affective resonance of the not-yet agitates, thought in germ. Where thought fields more than it forms, language as such does not yet exist. But even where language is not-yet, there is nonetheless within thought-thinking a drifting, a rhythmic shifting, a polyphonic multiplicity in germ ready to be activated, to be articulated, be it in words, in movement, in gesture. When language composes with this more-than, it brings to the fore the fragility of all forms of expression, including signification, alert- ing us to the complex tectonic forces of the “immanence of the finite in the multitude” (Simondon 1958, 28).
Through an ecological sensitivity—a sensing-with that occurs across registers and scales—the writers foregrounded here emphasize how being is always a composing-with in a dance of attention that registers the echoes, the silences, the rhythms of language, its subtractions and unsayabilities. In this regard, autistics are indeed otherworldly (in a way we would be wise to follow): they lead us toward an otherness of worlding.
An otherness of worlding does not begin with the human: it engages with and across in a vibratory expression that must be “read between.” An otherness of worlding is always more than one. It composes-with experi- ence, refuting the notion that the world is already known, pre-formed. This worlding is thought in motion, thought individuating in an amplifying in- corporeality, a vibratory materiality. It is a becoming across registers of ex- perience, “not the becoming of the individuated being but the becoming of the individuation of being” (Simondon 2005, 322). It is the dephasing of expression into a language of relation, cutting across signification, making felt at once the absolute imperative of being heard and the impossibility of saying, once and for all. What is singular about the autistic experience of and in language is that it emphasizes this tuning of language across its dif- ference, making this difference felt in the writing.
As emphasized above, with expression comes subtraction, and with this subtraction, the field of experience realigns. For the autistic, and likely for each of us, the subtraction expression entails is palpable, sometimes even painfully so. To participate in language is to feel the associated milieu of
potential regressing. But it is also to become capable of participating in an attunement. This attunement changes the stakes of the field of expression. Coming to expression empowers even as it limits. From potential to act.
Language that speaks the ineffable makes felt the collective individua- tion of a complex dance of attention that is less a straightforward means of denotation than an incipient choreographing of movements of thought. Across the associated milieu of relation that is its emergent field it calls forth a protopolitics that resituates the conditions for a body-worlding each time anew. This protopolitics does not yet distinguish between forms of life and forces for life: it brings into resonance the incipient potentials of life- living, cutting across this life with a life.
In its continual intersections with the force of a life, language as composing-with collectively agitates at the very limit where the human and the nonhuman intersect. Such writing reminds us that this life, this human life, is but a point of emphasis in a complex ecology that interfolds the realms of the organic and the inorganic, an ecology of practices that inter- laces with the potential of the more-than every step of the way.