22. Bracha Ettinger, Autistwork n2, 1993
ineffability of trauma. The folding is not an abyssal infolding—something is called forth. Something excessive, an almost unseeable more-than in the moving is at stake here.
Autistwork n2 is not at its core traumatic, not an infinite infolding: the abyss of seeing it provokes a velocity that has a centrifugal force. We are moved to see in excess of the image’s representation. To see centrifuge is to experience the force of a folding-through not of image per se—not of form—but of textures of resonance. It is to experience a surfacing of the affective tonality of the more-than of form, to see not lines but force-fields thick with vibratory movement. Autistwork n2 is full of potential, active with an intensity that calls forth an openness for perception. This openness for perception feels generative—it beckons. Rather than creating a sinking toward the nothingness of a lost history, Autistwork n2 seems to invite a new way of seeing that is a sensing in motion, toward, with.
Like “autistic perception,”2 which, as Donna Williams (1998) suggests, is an experience of encountering the “art of the object” before perceiving the object as such,3 Autistwork n2 makes felt the very ontogenetic force of emergence in its ecological worlding that is perception at its most creative and indeterminate. “Water,” writes Sue Rubin, “in which I find great com- fort and joy, is something that falls with an unexplainable grace. For that split second when water falls, I can almost see into an other world” (qtd. in Biklen 2005, 83, 84). Here, where force is still taking form and seeing is still a feeling, anything is possible.
Autistwork n2 escapes the preimposition of bounded form. This is a syn- esthetic work that trembles at the edge where color becomes light and sur- face becomes the activity of shaping. “One could say that the light opened vivid rifts between shapes, . . . I was a child fighting sensorial distortions, attracted by light’s double spell, which altered reality made of perspectives that seemed to have been put there for me to play with,” writes Alberto Fru- gone (qtd. in Biklen 2005, 185).
Shape is not the same as form. The magic of the shaping Frugone de- scribes refers to an experience of directly perceiving a proliferation of worlds that are themselves infinitely shaping. They are shaping in the sense that edges are meeting textures, that velocities are meeting intensities, cre- ating ecologies not yet resolved on the strata of objects, subjects, or form. Autistwork n2 paints this process of shaping, inviting the gaze to en- counter the exuberant fieldings of what might be called “autistic percep- tion,” making felt that all comings-to-form are first experienced in the vor-
tex of their incipient relational encounterings. It does this by slowing down the process of moving from shaping to form, actively making felt the shap- ing process. In so doing, it activates the more-than of perception, a more- than that is composed of foldings, of color become movement, of move- ment become light.
Autistwork n2 is cut through more than it is traced over by a purpling: purple traces, color-lines cut across the tremulous center, vibrate in a quiver of surfacing that creates an incessant foregrounding-backgrounding. Feel the vortex and you cannot but see the purple texturing, the purple pushing through a background of open quasi-colorlessness into a tremulous fore- grounding not of purple per se but of an intensively affective purpling, a force of light shimmering. This purpling is an activity more than it is a color, a trace, or a line. It agitates the fold. It surfaces it, layering it with potential shapings, affects on the verge. Barely felt, in the seeing.
This is the minima at work, a restless not-yet of the painterly in a paint- ing that prevents you from seeing solely in the form of the actual. To see here is to see-with, beyond the seeing-as-such. What we perceive is an exu- berance of form, an uneasy pairing of an image abstracted and an experi- ence to come.
What makes this exuberance felt? What prevents the abyss from dove- tailing into a nothingness thick with the pain of a memory always out of reach, of time disjointed? It’s the red in the vertical doubling of red and purple that courses up from the bottom right of the canvas, cutting into the central vortex. A red line moving from the bottom up, shifting into a shadow of itself, purple verticality. In fact it’s less the red line itself than it is the quality of redness that shifts the perceptual field. Redness is here less a color or the form of a trace than it is a line of force—or what Ettinger might call a “color-line-light”—that intercepts the traumatic infolding of the work by unmooring it, by startling the painting back to the surface. This redness provokes the centrifuge of perception in-the-making. A color-line because the line reverberates with color’s intensity, a color-line-light because it is not color or line we ultimately perceive, but light. A light beyond the seeing- as-such.
This light beyond the seeing is a with-seeing of a shaping directly felt in a vertiginousness that continuously flirts with what cannot, will not, be seen as such. This light beyond the seeing is an encounter with the beyond of seeing where vision itself begins to fold.
The redness of Autistwork n2 makes the more-than of seeing felt. To do so,
it paradoxically assists in composing the work. It is what Whitehead would call an eternal object. To repeat: for Whitehead, to perceive this or that is to have cut or subtracted or foregrounded from the welter of potential. This process Whitehead calls prehension. An actual occasion is a prehension that delimits a field. It is short-lived, often active only for the smallest inter- val of time, before which it perishes and is replaced by a new set of delimited conditions for actual experience. The actual occasion itself will never evolve or change because how it came to be cannot be replicated. The conditions for subtraction from potential are infinite yet, in actuality, absolutely singu- lar. An experience in the realm of the actual is therefore always absolutely what it is and has been. Eternal objects are the key to understanding the processuality of what here perhaps appears as a complete atomicity. Eter- nal objects make ingress into the actual, activating the more-than of its actuality—its virtual force. They are what give Whiteheadian metaphysics of the actual its potential. They are the force of relation that bleeds across all actuality, creating resonances—virtual linkages—between tendencies on the cusp of expressibility. The paradox is that for an experience to be known as such, there has to be a subtraction into actuality. Pure virtuality is pure indetermination. Eternal objects are a mechanism by which the actual becomes more-than, expressing its latent potentiality. Eternal objects are a reminder that all actuality is in fact activity—a coming-to-act. To paint a coming-to-act is to activate the fine line between the welter of a chaos in- folding and the actualization of an image or a form. Redness plays this role in Ettinger’s Autistwork n2. It is the eternal object that activates the coming- to-perception of the work at the same time as it is what keeps the painting from resolving once and for all.
The eternal object is a bit of misnomer—it is neither eternal in the usual sense nor an object. An eternal object is only eternal insofar as it remains a force for composition that creates an infinitely potentializing field of re- lation across occasions. Think of how redness carries a certain color-light quality beyond this or that actualization, a quality that can be called up as a somewhat stable tendency despite there being millions of individual ver- sions of red: redness evokes a perceptual field that carries beyond this or that event despite the fact that this red will, strictly speaking, never again be the same red. Redness, despite its returning across iterations, is nonethe- less not an object. It is a force for the shaping that makes ingress, affect- ing, luring the actual (the image, the form, the object) toward a vibratory experience of “red” that is both absolutely singular (this quality of light in
the coloring) and eternal (generalizable as a shaping that, while it resists form, creates a force of form that exceeds this particular instance of ingres- sion).
In Autistwork n2 redness catches vision in its abyssal folding, looping the whirl, flattening the vibratory surface (for all surfaces are also folds), tuning it toward a provisory stilling. Redness as a doubling verticality in the hori- zontality, a line in the non-line of a force shaping. Not quite an image: the welling of a force for the seeing. For what we see is not the red, or even the shadow-purple, but foldings-through fields of force that continuously and infinitely tremble the shaping.
The force of the welling image emerges as light in the between of color- lessness and the redness in the purpling. It emerges as the surfacing for per- ception of a field of resonance. To see Autistwork n2 is to see the very edge of see-ability. It is to see-with the feeling of experiencing a vertiginous loss of ground.
To make felt the ingress of eternal objects into the realm of the actual is to make felt the ineffable quality of autistic perception. It is to create for the seeing the between of words of which Amanda Baggs speaks. It is to acti- vate the very cusp where the resonant field of potentializing attaches to this event, here, for the seeing. This is exuberance at work. For there is nothing like making perceptible the vibratory edges of potential.
Autistic perception struggles with its necessary coexistence with neuro- typical perception. Where neurotypical perception tends to quickly parse the object from the field of resonance, autistic perception tends to dwell in the shaping. Donna Williams writes: “I have vague recollections of being able to sense the surfaces around me. I have a sketchy sense of having been able to sense the wall and changes in its structure where some parts were more solid than others. I recall sensing this without looking or using touch, changes such as where a door or window broke up or changed the conti- nuity. I recall a sort of ‘resonance’ with matter, a kind of non-physical body- mapping” (1998, 37).
The wide breadth of perceptual richness experienced by autistics—and also by neurotypicals, under certain conditions4—cannot easily be bridged in words, which renders explication difficult.  “Conventional  language only allows me [the] terms [of the neurotypical], so I have done my best to point out the enormous and beautiful world of experiences that lie between those words and beyond the limits of a language never equipped to describe them,” writes Baggs (2010a). How to articulate the realm of the not-yet,
“that richness [that] is infinite compared to the broadest of humanity’s fi- nite capacities?” How to explain that the body is not bounded? “Am I made up of thoughts or am I made up of my body?” asks Baggs (2010a). “For a long time I had no idea of waking or dreaming concept because everything looked as an extension of thoughts. Thoughts would get alive like anything that is alive” (Mukhopadhyay qtd. in Biklen 2005, 121). How to share a field- ing of experience so rich that it continuously reinvents the frame of exis- tence? “My first memories involve sensations of all kinds. Colors. Sounds. Textures. Flavors. Smells. Shapes. Tones. These are short words, but the meaning of them is long, involved, and complex. Some things caught my attention, others did not, but all of them were absorbed into my mind. It is hard to explain to another person the patterns of perception that come be- fore the ones they themselves have” (Baggs 2010a).
Such a way of life is not economical, not tuned to the quickness to which we are accustomed in a world where there remains the presupposition that form precedes force and image precedes shape. “Unless your brain is un- usually wired, I doubt you have ever—even in infancy—perceived things the way I most readily perceive them” writes Baggs (2010a). “I don’t doubt that this is the reason most people view my way of perceiving the world as an empty hole rather than every bit as rich and beautiful as their own.” Autistic perception dances the environment, folding-through a seeing-feeling that does not delimit in advance the realm of experience. “My experiences have their own richness that other people may not be able to see, and they are far more than a mere lack of movement, conventional thought, speech, lan- guage, or perception. . . . As someone whose cognitive and physical abilities vary widely from day to day, and moment to moment, I know that this rich- ness is just as present when I lack the capacity to differentiate one sensation or moment from another as it is when I am engaging in complex thought” (Baggs 2010a).
When experience folds into a synesthesia, when sensation and world are thoroughly intertwined, what is felt is experience infinitely layering: color become sound become resonant trace purpling in the redness of a more-than of seeing. This is how autistics describe their complex percep- tual worlds, and this is what occurs, it seems to me, in Ettinger’s Autist- work n2, which reminds us that this is also what painting can do, what can be brought to the world by art. Art can teach us again how to see in the be- fore of form where we might still glimpse the relational force of an eternal object coursing through the actual.
When actualized, perception ultimately resolves into an object or a form. The point is not to deny the presence of form but to stage an encounter with the shaping of its more-than. When this occurs, we catch nonsensuous per- ception in the folding: the direct perception of the half-second of pastness that is already leaking into an experience of the here-now. We feel forward to a memory of the future, an activation in the here-now of the not-yet. For the folds of perception are never linear and never completely actual—they always expose bits of duration that touch on pasts and futures unexplored, creating event-time in the seeing.
Return to Autistwork n2: see again how before there is frame, image, or form, there is a folding, this folding so intensive in its force that it literally folds seeing onto itself. This makes felt new modalities of perception or, as Souriau would say, new modes of existence. Here, vision itself vibrates with the force of all the seeing-feeling it cannot quite contain. “As though we conjugated with the non-seeing, seeing between, in the virtual unsettled- ness of these composite images, images superimposed, thought-images” (Buci-Glucksmann 1995, 45).
Let’s return to the technique of the work. Autistwork n2 begins on paper. A photograph is photocopied, the photocopier stopped midway, toner still leaking onto the image. In each of the stages, an image is held in abey- ance, the paper serving less as a stable matrix for the image than as a thick parchment for what will never quite be seen. “The image has degenerated. But it hasn’t disappeared. You might say instead that it has been caught ap- pearing, bearing degeneracy as a birthmark. Already degenerate, still just appearing: suspended between ages (appearing still)” (Massumi 2006, 1). It’s not that Ettinger hides the originary image—it’s that her technique fore- grounds how the bringing to emergence of the work of art must always occur against the grain of preexistent form. This is the work’s technicity: what is painted is force taking-form, not a representation of it (not the image of trauma, for instance). For this feeling of force of form to stand out, the intensity of a trace barely there must catch you before the actual seeing can begin, moving you to a perception that occurs in the before of classifi- cation, a before that catches seeing in the making, a seeing where the virtual and the actual coincide, a seeing of the event of tremulousness itself.
Two reds are active in Autistwork n2. The -ness of red vertically co- composing with the purple line-shadow is what catches perception in the abyssing and moves the seeing to occur in a here-now of expressibility. The second red works differently, grounding an image temporarily having
come to rest. Look for it in the right-hand corner of the painting in the tri- angulation of red-purpleness. This red-purple triangulation seems to settle vision—it appears for perception when the gaze is momentarily no longer caught in the vertigo of a more-than seeing—giving a certain resting place to the tumultuousness of perception. This second red is a reddening more than a redness, perception of color as such more than of quality or force. Where the redness—the first red—is an eternal object, a machine for con- tinuous reorientation in the folding through of the fold, a quality of relation that holds the seeing-with to the abyss of its eventful nonrepresentation, the second red—the reddening—is the mechanism though which vision is invited to return, if indeed vision ever makes it back here. For with autist- works we run the risk that we never actually come to the groundedness of actual perception, that we never quite land.
Autistwork n2—despite its title—is not a work about autism. But it does activate autistic perception. It is a work that fields the force of perception toward a limit that keeps the bounded image at bay, shaping an affective intensity before it takes a form. In so doing, it makes felt the eternity of a more-than that attends less to the trauma of an ineffable past lost to the see- ing than to a vibratory joy of the Spinozist kind, a joy that tunes toward the potential that courses through all becomings. This joy is not a happiness— it is a turbulent openness toward the invention of worlds in the making. A proposition for seeing again, with.
Autism is a modality of becoming before it is any kind of state. This is not to negate the movement disorder that tends to accompany the “classical autism” of which I speak throughout, nor to downgrade the myriad every- day challenges that tend to set autistics apart. It is simply to emphasize what classical autistics themselves continuously underscore: that autism is also and perhaps especially a way of perceiving the more-than of the coming-to-appearance of a worlding always under way. With autistic per- ception—which is on a continuum of perception not limited to autistics— there is never first a line, then an image, never first a frame, then light. Here, in the field of the more-than directly experienced, the resonance of eternal objects activating a relational field of quality can be felt, with form a residue—almost the afterthought—of a process too intensive to articu- late easily in spoken language. What we see: a thinking-feeling that folds perception into experience without the orientation of explication or form as an intermediary.
Autistic perception never begins with an object. Similarly, the “image-
object” of Autistwork n2 is not what we see. What appears is not strictly a photograph taken in a time of war, trauma, or diaspora, though this of course leaves its memory-shadow. What we see is how we see: the withness of perception folding. We see the experience of feeling the fold. We see the quality of the abyss of perception’s virtual infinity, we see the unseeable (the unbearable). Or better: we feel it in the amodal more-than of vision. We see-feel the vibratory force of purple edging to red, of parchment texturally haunted. We see-feel an edging into tendency, a durational velocity folding toward a more-than that continuously redraws the relation between seeing and feeling, between image and fold, between reddening and redness.
For Ettinger, the Autistwork series marks the drawing of a threshold that accepts, and even rejoices in, a certain not-seeing that follows in all her sub- sequent work. This not-seeing is a more-than of seeing that allows itself to perceive with the “remembering that I do not remember anymore” that co- exists with the “knowing that I do not know” (Ettinger 1993, 62).
The Autistwork series foregrounds that it is the how of the painting’s coming to appearance that knows (not the artist)—just as it is the ecology of relation of autistic perception that knows (not the autistic). It demon- strates that the how of knowing much exceeds the what (and the who) of knowing. It makes the more-than of image or object felt. It makes seen the constitutive difference between knowing-with and a more generalized knowing—knowing as categorization, organization, representation. It re- minds us that to know is to participate in a folding that will remain an intensity too multiple, too ineffable and too infinite to articulate without composing-with. To know is to know-with—to participate in the creation of worlds, worlds churning with the exquisite singular-infinity of eternal objects, seeings-in-the-feeling that continuously reinvent what perception (and knowing) can do.
That the painting knows, that the more-than of vision is felt through a perceptual field that takes its time before centering-in on an object sug- gests, perhaps, that powerful artworks are, to different degrees and in dif- fering constellations, autistworks. Artworks, that is, that make felt the more-than of their intensive fielding, that call forth durational traces that exceed the tracing of the already-circumscribed to become the active extin- guishing of any concept of the “about.” Autistwork is not about figure or no figure, not about body or no body: it is an experience of with-seeing on a quivering edge that can never know in advance what it will become.
On the level of technicity, Ettinger’s work directly engages with the
quivering edge. At this edge, what she calls the “withdrawing of traces” takes hold “where aesthetics approaches ethics beyond the artist’s inten- tions or conscious control”—a withdrawing that stages an encounter in the erasing (Ettinger 1993, 63). This encounter is multi-phased and multi- phasing. It begins, in Autistwork n2, as mentioned above, with a photograph that encounters a photocopy machine. Moving through a doubling of the grain, the photograph emerges retouched by photocopy dust—retouched by the ashes of its moving-through the appearing-disappearing image— such that it begins to disresemble itself, new edges and tendencies coming into appearance while others are backgrounded in the transfer. An addition for a subtraction.
It would be a mistake, however, to think of the painting beginning to take form in the aftermath of the photocopy machine. First, because the paint- ing will continue to resist an ultimate taking-form, its forces for withdraw- ing always active, always vibrating in the resonant seeing-with the painting proposes. Second, because the photocopy machine is itself a way of seeing- with, a collaborator in the processual fielding that is this autistwork.
That the photocopy machine is collaborator is a reminder that in autist- works we are never speaking of a subject painting and an object painted. With autistic perception, we are always speaking of a hyperrelational field of edgings-into and seeings-with, of color-lines become light and verti- calities horizontalizing. We are speaking, always, of a constitutive loss of ground in the seeing.
Autistworks create not form but a certain intensive shaping, a shaping that brings to the fore a force-field of potential that gives a singularity to the emergent. What autistworks shape is never preexistent—this is an im- manent shaping in the not-yet of experience tuning toward the thisness of actual perception. Autistworks shape insofar as they intensively delimit by inflecting, creating not form but tendency.
For an artwork to be an autistwork, it will have to create itself beyond its content, beyond the subject of its iteration, beyond the linear determi- nations of its history. It is not that these will have no bearing on it—the photocopier will always have left its withdrawing trace on Autistwork n2 as will the Holocaust, the family, the mother—but that the work will always have to beckon to the beyond of its genesis.
The beyond is not a spiritual realm outside the ecology of worlding that is life-living. The beyond is an interval of life-living, here-now in an incessant eternal return, as Nietzsche might say, active in the spiraling of interstices
through which the edgings-toward of speciations continuously metamor- phose. The beyond, a shaping without limit, infused with “the language we speak, / we who can see without looking” (Sinclair 1993).
The more-than, the beyond of representation, the knowing-with, this we might also call love—“love the anonymous elements” (Ettinger 1993, 65). Love as the more-than where feeling achieves its final escape from the sub- ject. Love as the fielding of the agitation-that-worlds in an ecology of move- ment. Love as the force that architects a mobility without preimposed direc- tion. Love as a sense of encountering what we thought was delimited—is that me?—again, differently. Love as the crafting, in a relational effortless- ness, of an event of generosity that occludes any notion of the “I”—is that you? Love as the expression of how the bounded me never was and never will be. Love as the spark that shapes an enthusiasm that forever exceeds us. Love has no subject. It is where the object never was. Love is more than human: it courses across the human, across life in all its material and incor- poreal ecologies, touching on the folding of the world bodying. Love: that which catches the more-than of feeling in the edging toward perception and incites a landing that never quite sites. Does the me ever return? Only
as an afterthought.
And never as an autistwork.