“This is our dance without bodies / Where every touch has meaning, / and no glance is ever wasted. / This is the language we speak.” This is the lan- guage we speak, a language between the sounding of words, a language in the shaping for “we who can float outside time.”1 This is the language we speak, a language beyond communication, a language that shapes a differ- ent kind of coming-together, a different kind of being-heard. This is the lan- guage we speak, autispeak. But it is also the language we speak, anyspeak, a language that spreads across the telling and marks the underneath of wording, a language that is mute and sounding of expressions in the shap- ing, of becomings-with in the pre- of articulation. This is the language we speak, written before the words, between the lines, with and across expres- sion and expressibility, where “smiles have no need for faces / and warmth breathes from frozen places.” The language not of syllables but of shapes, the language within language before language that is a field of resonance, an intensive enjoyment of an enthusiasm with and in a world that speaks not in the name of “I” but in the interval where the many become one and are increased by one. “This is our voice in the silence / Where every word has weight, and no thought is ever lost.”
This is a language we hear in autie-type by those whose typing makes felt how the relational is everywhere active in the writing, a language we can also become attuned to in the complex fieldings of choreographic thinking, in the dance of attention, in architectings of mobility that create propositions for an ecology of participation that exceeds what we thought movement could do. This language we never quite speak but are always tuning toward is a language with weight, heavy with not-yet soundings, a language that vibrates in a suspense of the in-act but that acts nonetheless, intensively shaping a worlding that redefines the very core of what we understand as ac- tivity. Activist philosophy: the in-act of worldings yet to come, in the tremu- lous ecological resonance of the elastic almost where movement moves and life lives.
This intensity, an intensity of the withness of expressibility, activates a process, I want to suggest, that takes the shape of enthusiasm, a kind of Spinozist joy of the betweenness of experience. An enthusiasm with life in the making.
An enthusiasm with life in the making is a shaping of the resonant field of experience in the withness of expressibility’s taking form. This shaping
is not a closed shape, does not take after an object or come from a subject. It is not the human as preconstituted who is enthusiastic. Enthusiasm is the name I am giving to the tremulous field of expression itself, to its exuber- ance, especially when this field percolates at the very limits of expressibility in the before of the subject or object, in the before of image or form. Enthu- siasm as a movement-with that colors expressibility, giving a certain allure to the coming-to-expression. “I” is not enthusiastic—the shape of worlding is enthusiastic, in-forming toward an act without predecessor, an act always yet in the trembling “where memory echoes from the future.”
Enthusiasm touches on a future-pastness in a topology of time that does not sequester the beginning from the end, that captures the saying in its middling. In the middling, bodies are not yet constituted: eventually they will resolve, taking the form of a thousand different species, with a thou- sand different agencies. But let’s not move too quickly toward a body re- born, for this is not where enthusiasm resonates. Let’s stay instead in the between, in the force of form that shapes experience. For, when we learn to dwell in the shaping of enthusiasm that is the middling of experience, we discover many things, not least of which is that the difference between autispeak and anyspeak is not as fundamental as we may have believed, de- spite what Francis Tustin says.
From the perspective of her long-standing clinical research into autism, Francis Tustin writes of her many encounters with “autistic shapes,” which she describes as the non-object–oriented realm of preconscious experience where autistics linger. She does this critically, arguing that this process of shaping is something to be avoided. Rather than seeing the fascinating concept of prelinguistic shapes as an inroad into understanding the com- plexity of experience, autistic or otherwise, Tustin prefers to confine the concept of shapes to the realm of the pathological, making it the goal of the psychoanalytic process she condones to divest autistics of their shapes. In so doing, she believes they will become more accountable to the objects in their midst.
Tustin writes: “In the days when I was working as a psychoanalyst child therapist with young autistic children, as they began to talk, they would tell me about their ‘shapes.’ . . . They were not the shapes of any particular object. Just ‘shapes.’ . . . I do not know what other forms were covered by what they referred to as ‘shapes’ . . . it was not the shape of a specific object which existed in actuality; it was just a ‘shape’ ” (1984, 278).
That Tustin cannot quite articulate the nature of a “shape” is not sur-
prising: the shaping of experience in the making is dynamic and amodal— active in the perceptual field where language is not-yet. It is, as described in chapter 1, a vitality form, a preconscious verging toward a coming-to-act that tunes to the relational milieu of experience. Such a vitality form occurs in the half-second or less of an event’s coming to expression. It is, as Stern underlines, a “manifestation of being alive” that is all about movement— vitality forms shape the lived experience of duration, giving incipient ex- perience its activation contour.
Giving this activity of shaping the name of enthusiasm, making enthu- siasm the force of the not-yet, emphasizes the towardness, the exuber- ance and the intensity of vitality forms, calling forth the way in which they manifest always in excess of actual forms in the towardness of a coming- to-be. Vitality forms take the shape of the not-yet such that they in-form not simply the content of the experience but its affective tonality: “they are the felt experience of force—in movement—with a temporal contour, and a sense of aliveness, of going somewhere” (Stern 2010, 8). They are the “‘shapes’ of sound, smell, taste and sight” that are “‘felt’ rather than heard, smelled, tasted or seen” (Tustin 1984, 279).
“We are already reacting to a stimulus before we know what it is,” writes Stern (2010, 68). Think the shape of enthusiasm as the associated milieu of experience where the relational field is still in-forming. Remember: the associated milieu is not an external environment, nor is it a neutral be- tween of two actualized forms. The associated milieu is the withness of every coming-to-expression. It is always with its associated milieu that a given occasion of experience begins to take shape. Enthusiasm is of the milieu, not an external qualifier. Enthusiasm is the force of a resonant in- tensity that continuously reorients the field toward the more-than of its potential. This reorientation is indeed “already reacting to a stimulus,” as Stern writes, but not through the specter of the “we.” It is not “we” who are reacting, for “we” are not yet. Co-constitutive worlding.
The shape of enthusiasm is emphatically not a quantification of experi- ence. Enthusiasm is not a moral category, not good or evil, just as the more- than is not a quantification of life. Enthusiasm is what moves the field of experience toward the creativity of its continual recomposition. It is the insistent refrain that keeps coming back: “Was that life? Well then! Once more!” (Nietzsche 1967, 318).
The shaping of the more-than creates speciations. These speciations are hybrids—not human, not environmental, not animal. They emerge across
forces of life-living through the contour of the experiential matrix that is this or that coming-to-act. Speciation is not a question of scale but of mode: it binds the organic and the inorganic in an infinity of micropercept- ible yet tangible ways, creating new forms of life-living barely categorizable as form or matter.
The core of the problem in Tustin’s analysis of shapes is that she be- gins with species instead of speciations. To begin with species is to have already put into place a hierarchy of forms. The hierarchy itself then be- comes a pathology, an enclosure that wrests from its protected environment all that does not resemble it, separating, as Félix Guattari would say,2 the “normopaths” from the neurotics and psychopaths and, of course, the au- tistics. For pathologization takes the fully formed individual as the starting point to experience and erects it as a norm. Yet, because there is no such thing as a stable individual—because the individual is always only a tempo- rary vectorization of the larger process of individuation—more and more systems must be put into place to keep up the pretence of the stability of this imposed notion of the norm. These efforts include identifying certain traits within the human species and attempting to link them superficially with every individual in the category (think mindblindness), thus creating a precise assemblage of normative behavior consistently reinforceable. Any- thing that does not immediately conform to the superficial content of what has been defined as the norm now falls into the more unstable field of the pathological (the sick, the other, the less-than-human), which in effect, cre- ates not only a paradoxical pathologization of the individual as such (who never really existed in any stable and reiterable way in the first place) but the more widespread pathologization of experience itself. The pathologi- zation of experience then works to subtract from experience the ineffable more-than, for there is no place for the more-than in an ideology of ratio- nalization or progress or survival or cure (whatever the leading by-line of the time). This not only disqualifies all that does not resemble it—it wrests experience of its incipiency, violently seeking to undermine the complexity of life-living’s processual shaping.
Tustin’s analysis of “autistic shapes” feeds into this very tendency, using the psychoanalytic language-oriented by-line of her era. The human indi- vidual is the norm, and to be human is to be in language in a specific way: it is to be capable of symbolizing the processual, of stabilizing experience. The autistic who lingers in the shape of enthusiasm must therefore be di- vested of her attachment to the processual, must be taught to speak, and,
more specifically, must be taught to articulate the content of experience in terms of already-formed objects and events. “We live in a world dominated by words and by the shapes of actual objects,” Tustin explains to justify her claim that it is counter to the autistic’s well-being to dwell in the process of shaping (1984, 280). The ineffable, the unspeakable, must be avoided at all costs, for there is no future, no capacity for survival in “the language we speak.” Tustin is adamant: “Autistic shapes are not merely psychological curiosities. They are blocks to more normal functioning” (1984, 284). This is why Tustin must so quickly move toward the “curing” of autistics of their shapes. For while Tustin agrees that there is likely a “normal” “inbuilt dis- position to form ‘shapes,’ ” she is adamant that ultimately there is no place in the normopathic world for the ineffable in-act of shaping.
And yet, as Stern demonstrates with the concept of vitality forms, all experience is in-forming. It is replete with the “lulling” “spinning,” and “vague formations of sensation” Tustin describes (1984, 278). “Shapes” are everywhere active, and, despite what Tustin says, the process of shaping is not predominantly “autistic.” The only reason to foreground the autistic here would be to underscore the way autistics seem to be capable of lin- gering in the shaping, capable of slowing down the process of shifting- to-content.3 As Roy Bedward writes: “Never think I’m not paying atten- tion when I’m not looking because I’m always paying complete attention to everything. I just can’t begin to say how much you miss when you make your attention narrow and focused. It is the bane of autism to be able to attend to way too much.”4
Communication is everywhere amplified by the more-than of its appar- ent content. The shape of words—their affective tonality, the way they taste, what they provoke, how they appear, what lines of drift they trace—is as intensely foregrounded for autistics as the what of language’s content. This is something Tustin cannot understand: autistics “listen to other people’s voices, not as a communication, but as a self-envelopment by lulling shapes,” Tustin writes dismissively (1984, 280). She is clearly missing the point. She cannot fathom that the direct experience of lulling shapes means being capable of seeing the dance of attention of a worlding taking form. Of seeing the shape of enthusiasm. In the communicating—a composing- with.
The shape of enthusiasm carries with it an intuition. Bergson calls intu- ition a “direct vision,” a “vision which is scarcely distinguishable from the object seen, a knowledge which is contact and event coincidence” (2007,
20). In the event, in the language we speak, between and in excess of words, there is an intuition of a coming-to-content that is more-than the form of its communicability. This vision, as Bergson might call it, is a direct experi- ence of dynamic form: a swelling, a surging, a bursting, an accelerating, a fading, a fleeting, a moving-with. This dynamic form in the event’s unfold- ing has “no pre-imposed modality [and is not a] direct cognition” (Stern 2010, 8). It is a direct vision of experience in the making, an intuited im- mediate feltness of the “how” of experience (Stern 2010, 8).
What Tustin cannot fathom is that this “how” of experience is itself a form of composing-with. It is an enthusiasm shared not simply with the human interlocutor but with the world itself in the shaping. Enthusiasm in the field of relation, a durational thinking-feeling co-composing with movement worlding. “Intuition, bound up to a duration which is growth, perceives in it an uninterrupted continuity of unforeseeable novelty” (Berg- son 1997, 23). “This is the language we speak, / we who can float outside time” (Bergson 1992, 34–35).
In this ineffability of expression, in the intuition of duration itself, what of words? Are vitality forms always in excess of words, in the before of ar- ticulation? Can there be a shaping of language in-forming, a listening-with “between the words.” A shape of enthusiasm in the saying, in the writing? This is a question Tustin never thinks to ask.