In 1967 Fernand Deligny takes on a project of living with autistics in order to explore the potential of a different notion of care not encountered within the institutions that seek to organize experience and pathologize those who cannot speak the dominant language.5 Over a period of more than two de- cades, Deligny leads a network of encampments in the Cevennes at Mono- blet where autistic children are paired with local people assisted by interns.6 The idea was to welcome children between the ages of three and ten who were mute (“out of language”—hors parole, as Deligny calls it). The cost was very low and the stays could last “between three or four months, three or four times a year” (Toledo 2007, 683).
In an effort to conceive of a living networking of difference, Deligny turns his back on the psychiatric institution and especially on the psycho- analytic tendency to pathologize “the language we speak.” He proposes in-
stead a cartography of everyday life that occurs in a mode of cohabitation where the vectors of necessity—the sharing of a site—reorient the question of the normal and pathological toward notions of dynamic mappings that affect experience at the level of movement itself. The project is not to make autistics more “like us”—to make them speak or act within the commu- nicational matrix of societal expectation. It is, rather, to create a dynamic milieu in the everyday context that can make felt the force of prearticulation that lingers in the unsaid. This, he believes, will allow us to ask the question Tustin never addresses, the question of the between of words, thus reori- enting what it means to speak in the first person singular.
Over the years, building on this explicit mandate to invent modes of rela- tion that do not necessarily rely on words, a singular iteration of experience in the making begins to take the form of maps of movement, “tracings,” as Deligny calls them.7 These tracings, a collaboration between the network and the autistics, become incipient cartographies of an associated milieu of relation that builds on the way movement and life-living interrelate.8 The challenge, as Deligny conceived it, was to learn “to see language from the point of view of a mute child” (Toledo 2007, 679).9 A choreographic propo- sition.
Together, farmer and child, intern and child, writer and child, filmmaker and child, militant and child, share a life that is parsed in hundreds of ways by the necessity of the everyday—the washing of clothing, the leading of goats, the building of encampments. From these daily tasks, tracings on paper emerge that outline the shiftings between sites and the reorientings of territories in the moving, tracings that magnify the moreness of habitual pathways. These tracings at once trace the regularity of habit and routine and the unrepresentable of its drifts. They do not reproduce movement, they activate it. Deleuze writes:
A cartography is suggested today by Deligny when he follows the course of autistic children. . . . All these lines are tangled. Deligny produces a geo-analysis, an analysis of lines which takes his path far from psycho- analysis, and which relates not only to autistic children, but to all children, to all adults (watch someone walking down the street and see what little in- ventions he introduces into it, if he is not too caught up in his rigid seg- mentarity, what little inventions he puts there), and not only their walk, but their gestures, their affects, their language, their style. (2007, 128; my emphasis)10