In the aligning to the simple togetherness of the everyday, an everyday that moves in certain directions out of necessity and lifelong habits, and in other directions out of curiosity and drift, the tracings surreptitiously go far be- yond the paths they trace to make felt the vitality forms of the comings-to- act that erupt across the territory’s more stable lines: explosions of congru- ence, intensive contours. Through the shape of enthusiasm felt in the lines of drift, in the contours that reform the edges of spacetime, an intuition is drawn. This is the intuition of a commoning that is beyond commonality, a commoning of lines of drift meeting, of lines lingering, thickening, curving in a reorienting of spacetimes of experience in the making.11
The tracings begin as a kind of intervention. In 1969 Jacques Lin, a long- time collaborator of Deligny’s in the network, is overtaken by an over- whelming feeling of disempowerment in the face of what he perceives as an uncontainable violence brought on by an autistic tantrum no doubt in
large part caused by the potent mixture of a lack of inhibition and over- sensory stimulation. He is at a loss and turns to Deligny for assistance. In- stead of trying to sort out the experience with language, Deligny suggests that Lin transcribe the autistics’ movements, their displacements in order “to channel language through gesture in the tracing” (Toledo 2007, 798). In time, these tracings become a practice (and a project) across the network: “And so we must trace, not so that there be a trace, to keep something or to locate on the lines of space an experience; we must trace a trace before there is even a trace. . . . We must trace these maps, give being to this drift, to this line that has nothing more than its own path, than the force of being-there without a place of existence” (Han 2006, 187).
Deligny’s project can be seen as one of co-composition through a com- mon tracing that allows the uncommon to emerge. Deligny underscores: it is a lost cause to attempt to reform others to our image. What is important is to learn techniques of listening-with, techniques that allow us to move- with in a continuance of drift that opens the spacetime of experience to the richness of its vitality forms, allowing the felt intensity of its shaping to stretch in duration, as it seems to do for autistics.
Deligny writes, “And if, instead of teaching them to speak, we learned to hold our tongues?” (1975, 3).The muteness of autism touches on the inef- fable in expressibility. It is more-than a silence, more-than a not-speaking. It is “the language we speak.” “To be silent . . . is not to stop talking [se taire], it is not a reaction; it is a posture, an attitude, a style of life, an ensemble of gestures that hold speech in abeyance” (Querrien 2006, 172). Deligny is suspicious of language: for Deligny, language is tied too closely to the in- stitutionalization of the other. Language is too content to categorize, orga- nize, close down, too intent on subsuming intensity to content: language “is the matrix of representation, the structure of our world and the root of this specific belief that we need a ‘me’ in order to exist” (Deligny qtd. in Han 2006, 188).12
But is there not another way of conceiving language? As autie-type dem- onstrates, in the force of expressibility where the shape of enthusiasm lin- gers—“in the language we speak”—lives a certain muteness that is the pre- articulation of language in-forming. Prearticulation’s activation contour is the how of language’s movement-with that shapes not necessarily words as such but the force of their incipient expressibility. Language, autie-type demonstrates, can also be active in lines of drift that move in a worlding that persists “between the words.” Poetry has long done this, exposing lan-