24. Line of Drift 9
guage to the more-than of its content, activating the incipient expressibility within expression. Jim Sinclair’s poem leads the way here, reminding us that poetry can be a voice for “the language we speak,” that poetry’s tech- niques of rhythm and repetition give us a taste of what lurks between the words and across the lines. Deligny also seems to have an intuition that takes him in this direction, for he makes a place for his own poetic voice to be heard beside (between?) the tracings,13 activating the traces with words written in a rhythm that co-composes with the drifting lines. This opens writing itself to a drift that reorients the territory, that composes across the “we” of “this is the language we speak” and “we, the normopaths.” For Deligny’s is a composing-with where the “we” is continuously replaced by the more-than of the iteration, the not-quite sayable of its ineffability where “we” are not-yet.
If a “we” does emerge it is an uncommon we: “The wE of which I speak is the inverse of a we-two: but it is not a myth and resides discreetly with all the forms of a we-here, we-there. To respect it requires no doubt a cer- tain rigour for which I would be incapable of formulating rules” (Deligny 1976, 24). “We” here is multiple—always more-than the expressibility of its taking-form. For the “we” in the tracings, in “the language we speak,” is a field continuously co-constituted by the events it calls forth. It never knows what to say in advance of the saying. The “we” is adrift. “Tracing maps . . . is first to try to not speak, to not want to know. It is to accept that there is more than the human, that there exists a human who is nothing of our- selves and yet is nonetheless there without knowing who he is, who is there closeby without anything to do” (Han 2006, 188). They drift “to try to see from the other side of We, to no longer enclose, and to stop thinking in the mode of ‘I.’ . . . ‘I’ is but a truncated metaphor for Deligny, the source of all their delusions and missed encounters, a substantive forged by the history of discourse, a stranglehold of grammar” (Han 2006, 188).