poral and intensity contour to the content” (Stern 2010, 23). What is at stake here is not the content of the image but the activity of the field the event gives rise to: “It is the difference between transcribing a sensation and trac- ing to permit something wholly other than the already-felt to appear” (De- ligny 1976, 11).
The already-felt is content premapped onto experience. This does vio- lence to experience, if for no other reason than that in order to consistently reappear as the form of what-was in the mode of the already-felt, the con- tent will have to be policed, held together, frozen: no experience can truly be replayed quite the same way twice. Content premapped requires a suffo- cation of time, of process. It requires the premapping onto experience of the no-time of the will-have-known-in-advance. Pathologization happens in this no-time of experience.
In ordinary maps, in a cartography of precise Euclidean coordinates, the already-defined masks lines of drift.16 Such maps draw conclusions in ad- vance based on the autocracy of the similar, of the already-seen, of the lived- before. “No trace of democracy in this enterprise,” writes Deligny about his networking experiment. “At the limit, and in the best moments, [the children’s] mode of listening is imperceptible. To formulate it is to put into danger this imperceptibility” (Deligny 1976, 25).
Vitality forms are the marker of life welling, of life-living beyond the thisness of content preimposed. There is no experience that does not carry into its realization the contours of its having come to expression. And these contours are nothing if not imperceptible—felt but imperceptible as such in the howness of their evolution. Vitality forms are not formed in advance by the content of the event they call forth—they color the coming-into- expression of life as we know it, creating the allure of what comes to be without deciding in advance what it is that will come-to-act. “The vitality dynamic gives the content its form as a dynamic experience. The contents, by themselves, need not conform to any particular dynamic experience” (Stern 2010, 23).
Vitality forms “are the most fundamental of all felt experience.” They are inherent in each coming-to-act, bringing forth a speciation that always ex- ceeds containment (Stern 2010, 8). These speciations occur in the between of experience and experiencing where embodiment is not-yet. They meet as tendencies, as proclivities. Arm meets rosebush to become gardening- tendency, thorn meets sound to become weapon, disintegrating rock meets water to become raft. Bodies, life-forms do emerge, but never as fully formed, never “as such”: something always escapes the delineation of the coming-to-act, and something always exceeds it. The body, the individual, life as such is but a shorthand for a million speciations, organic and in- organic, intertwining.
Speciations create drifts, and these drifts create runoffs. This is not a metaphor. When autistic perception meets the world, something is doing that fundamentally changes the field of relation. This field of relation “in- cludes” the “we” that is not “I.” It creates a tending-toward, a procedure- for-life that is a shaping of the relational milieu of experience. “Practice does not come after the emplacement of the terms and their relations, but actively participates in the drawing of the lines; it confronts the same dan- gers and the same variations as the emplacement does” (Deleuze and Guat- tari 1987, 203). Lines of drift are lines of life-living. They are emphatically
real, if abstract. They shape the trajectories of life-living and of the more- than that animates it.