Our Home Beyond Nowhere
Like a choreographer, Deligny’s project in the Cevennes involves a crafting of conditions for the creation of an ontogenetic process of bodying that does not begin with existing form but seeks to create speciations—new forms/forces of live-living. This choreographic process occurs at a locus that is always itself being redefined—not the place of the institution but also not simply the place of the mountains, the place of the locals, the place of the autistics. The locality is itself reorienting—note that Deligny focuses on encampments rather than on a more conventional notion of home or place. The locus of the encounter is both here and more-than here, turning the very concept of place onto itself in an intensive reorienting of the asso- ciated milieu of relation. The goal? To make encounter into event, to create the conditions for the emergence of speciations that are made of variations on the milieu. To architect an environment that is potentializing not only for the autistic but for the community as it reinvents itself, to create, as Blanchot might say, a community to come.
Pathology is never far away. Speciations extrude species. Surely there was plenty of stratification, hierarchy, habit? No doubt. But what makes Deligny’s choreographic proposition stand out is that he was interested not in fashioning a project that would define itself (and the autistic) once and for all but, like Félix Guattari and Jean Oury with La Borde, sought to craft conditions that would allow for an attuning of emergent relations in order not so much to heal the autistic than to activate the community toward a re- thinking of the “we.” Deligny was interested in how a choreographic propo- sition might create drifts that continuously cut through, despite and with the powers-that-be, unraveling pathologies in the making.
In the orienting toward a concept of life-living where the human is not- yet and more-than, Deligny worked to invent techniques for the prolifera- tion of drifts that not only gave the autistics a voice but also gave him a story to tell, a trace to follow. “This is our home beyond nowhere,” writes Jim Sinclair. Beyond nowhere, the more-than of life-living dwells in a shap- ing that continuously drifts. Beyond nowhere is a line that moves, not run- ning from the world or running the world, but running with it, now-here,17 “causing runoffs. . . . There is no social system that does not leak from all
directions, even if it makes its segments increasingly rigid in order to seal the lines of flight. There is nothing imaginary, nothing symbolic, about a line of flight. There is nothing more active than a line of flight, among ani- mals or humans” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 204).
Our home beyond nowhere is “the language we speak.” Now-here is the milieu, the never known in advance. Here, speciations abound, forever get- ting overcoded by species, by the imposition of the no-time of pathologiza- tion, by the segmentarity of rigid lines that mark off a territory, creating an inside and an outside. This will always happen. And yet speciations will also infinitely reemerge. They are unstoppable. The technical question is how to draw out the durational intensity of the drift, how to forestall the linger- ing in experience that autistics describe so beautifully. The language of the drift, of shapes, is pathologized because the lingering seems hedonistic, be- cause there are things to do, places to be. What happens when the tables are turned? What happens when we begin to realize that these places to be are themselves composed of infinite lines of drift, creating runoffs, orienting anew, again? Lines of drift are everywhere active. You can’t start from the macro and build down but nor can you assume that all change happens in the micro. The movement is across. You can never fully count on the edifice you’ve built to protect you from the orientings-in-place of pure experience. The drift is ultimately unavoidable. Between the words.
The shape of enthusiasm is but one possible shape the drift can take. There are an infinity of ways of articulating the force of an intensive en- joyment that speciates across the organic and the inorganic, an infinity of ways to conceive of the confluence of life and experience. There is an infinite ecology of practices. The shape of enthusiasm is but one way to give a direct vision of the feltness of the exuberance of life-living, its unrestrained, in- finitely multiplying orienting that is not a directionality (not an acting-on) but an in-act alive in the driftings of life-living’s coming-to-expression.
The shape of enthusiasm lurks in and beyond language, across the lines of drifts, at all scales of life-living. Deligny suggests that this shap- ing creates a commoning, a common emphatically beyond community and commonality, beyond communication as the making-symbolic of life-as- language, beyond the social as the organization of the “I.” “The social is created economically, in the norm, and has nothing in common with the common, with the welcome of one and each. The social separates the wheat from the chaff, it sorts, and it merits itself. And it creates its remains, the ‘scum’ in the etymological sense of the word; these remains are for Deligny