discoveries, the apparition of the other, what counts in a life” (Querrien 2006, 168). A commons in the crossing, in the composing.
Commons are active in the tracings, and tracings are ubiquitous: “indi- vidual or group, we are traversed by lines, meridians, geodesics, tropics, and zones marching to different beats and differing in nature” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 202). Tracings cut as much as they run off. They create no certainty, but they do delimit. Each line has its own modality, and with the drift no doubt come all kinds of rigid segmentarities, language being only one of them. “Supple segmentarity . . . is only a kind of compromise operating by relative deterritorializations and permitting reterritorializa- tions that cause blockages and reversions to the rigid line” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 205). Limits are always already there, even within the lines of drift. They are the affordances that enable the tracings—thickenings of the brush, mountainings of the slope—affordances emergent on the paper as exuberances in their own right. Limits are also thresholds or even bar-
riers—the end of a road, the wall that cannot be scaled. These create the stillings, the diversions, the segmentarity.
The notion of the limit plays two ways within tracings, activating both the constraint that allows for the tracing in the first place—for there to have been a line, there had to have been a certain quality of movement, a certain opening within the territory—and the barrier through which the line must fold or break. There is never indifference at the limit. Everything matters. “The space of the maps on which the movements of everyday life are inscribed configures a common space where the trajectories are not in- different to the presence of others, where a limit appears in the comings and goings of the children who up until now the adults would not follow, a limit centred on the space of a life in common” (Querrien 2006, 169). Think the limit as an activation contour onto which a certain tenor of movement moves. The limit not as that which delimits the “common” but that through which a commoning becomes expressive. The limit as enabling constraint of a commonality in the making, a language unsaid but ripe for the moving.
The common as becoming-body, as more-than, is not the result of a negotiation. The common is never there in advance of the field it proposes, it is a coming-to-expression of the associated milieu of life-living. Here, in the milieu of life-living, new forms of life emerge that are not beings so much as dynamic shapings of experience in the making: bursts and broken circles, hard lines and soft contours, agitated crossings and ludic darken- ings of the field of experience in the moving.
“These maps, to tell the truth, do not say much, except that we in no way know what the human is, nor the common” (Deligny 1980, 19).