First Movement ~ Are You a Gorilla?
In a piece entitled “The Silence Between,” Dawn Prince writes of an en- counter with a bonobo chimpanzee, Kanzi, that sets the stage for a rethink- ing of the deep “regard” she shares with apes of all kinds. Having flown to Decatur, Georgia, at the invitation of Sue Savage-Rumbaugh, Prince finds herself alone with Kanzi. She writes: “Naturally, I fell into the gorilla lan- guage I knew, a language of body, mind, and spirit. Kanzi and I played chase up and down the fence line, both of us on all fours, smiling in a sea of fun and deep breaths.” Then something uncanny occurred:
He stopped suddenly and grabbed his word board off the ground. He pointed to a symbol and then pointed to me and made a hand gesture with his eyebrows raised. It was clear that he was asking me a question. He repeated this series of words and movements over and over, until I said, out loud, “I’m sorry, I can’t understand, Kanzi. Let me get Sue and maybe she can help me.” At first, she was at a loss. Then after asking
him to point to the word again, she realized he was pointing to the word “gorilla” on his board and making the American Sign Language sign for question after pointing to me. It was clear he was asking me if I was a go- rilla. What was amazing, though, is that he didn’t know American Sign Language: he had seen a video of the gorilla Koko using it and must have not only remembered the signed words, but, not having known other gorillas, assumed that all gorillas understood sign language. If I was a gorilla, he thought, this must be a way of communicating that I would understand. (Prince 2010)
Before I turn to the story in detail, I want to begin with the epigraph above where Dawn Prince writes “The gorillas regarded me.” This regard of which she speaks is how I want to frame the engagement with Prince’s story, be- ginning right away with the speculation that the regard about which Prince speaks sets the stage for the encounter with the bonobo Kanzi, shifting it from one of detached observation to one of concern. For Whitehead’s notion of concern, as outlined throughout this book, is very much about the emphasis on a different notion of regard, regard not of the subject for the object, or of one individual for another, but of the occasion for its own unfolding.
The notion of concern is one way of reworking the dichotomy of sub- ject and object, reinserting them in the event: “The occasion as subject has a ‘concern’ for the object. And the ‘concern’ at once places the object as a component in the experience of the subject, with an affective tone drawn from this object and directed towards it” (Whitehead 1967, 176). The sub- ject does not begin the process: it is the process that activates the subject. “The subject-object relation can be conceived as Recipient and Provoker, where the fact provoked is an affective tone about the status of the provoker in the provoked experience,” Whitehead writes, adding that “the word ‘re- cipient’ suggests a passivity which is erroneous” (1967, 176). Concern is not an intersubjective term but rather the basis for understanding that experi- ence emerges through “the rise of an affective tone originating from things whose relevance is given” (Whitehead 1967, 176).
This is relevant to the story Prince recounts for two reasons. First, as I mention above, the framing of the event is built on a notion of regard that foregrounds less an interpersonal stance than an affective tonality. Second, in the event of the regard there is a slippage in time that undermines a static positioning of subject and object. Whitehead’s notion of concern gives us
the tools to understand this crafting of time in the relation. Prince writes: “To them, I had never been away, because I had really been there once.” In the event of relation, a concern is emergent that alters the conditions for a regard that “will always have been there once.” Recipient and provoker are not to be confused simply with “Dawn Prince” and “the gorillas” or “Prince” and “Kanzi.” Recipient and provoker are the myriad affective tonalities of an encounter that stages time and event such that “to have really been there once” is to have set into motion the conditions for an activation of regard— of concern—that is capable of outliving the immediate occasion.
The challenge here is to understand that regard is not something that flows unidirectionally between the human and the animal. What is happen- ing in the epigraph is the setting into place of a dynamic relation that fore- grounds the movement of time, emphasizing how time is itself a dynamic form that recasts how relation is conceived. When Prince writes that “To them, I had never been away, because I had really been there once,” it is of course her interpretation of the event, but nonetheless it sets into motion an interesting provocation to the relational field that continues to be fore- grounded in the story Prince then tells about her encounter with Kanzi. I want to suggest that this notion of regard allows us to reposition the ulti- mate question—“Are you a gorilla?”—away from the interpersonal toward an emphasis on the relational movement that frames the second encoun- ter—“Kanzi and I played chase up and down the fence line, both of us on all fours, smiling in a sea of fun and deep breaths”—where movement itself becomes the way the event has concern for its unfolding.
Let’s replay the event: Dawn Prince and Kanzi run along a fence, goad- ing one another, moving one another forward in an eight-footed play. First, Prince moves with what she knows: “Naturally, I fell into the gorilla lan- guage I knew, a language of body, mind, and spirit.” She is not mimick- ing. Her movement comes from an affective attunement based on a long- standing connection to nonhuman languages: “When I was young I talked to animals in that language of silence. I knew what trees and streams were saying because they told me. I knew what sow bugs and snakes were saying because they molded me. . . . Sometimes my grandfather would ask me in the garden, ‘What are the worms saying today.’ ‘Fine fine slither dirt push good rotting green,’ I would answer, smiling” (Prince 2010). This, the lan- guage of the nonhuman, is a language that already tunes, for Prince, to her movement. She listens with movement, listens to how it expresses in the now of the encounter. She knows the welling event has regard for this move-
ment, this expression in the moving of the more-than of human experi- ence. Kanzi, in turn, plays with the language of movement she proposes, “both of us on all fours, smiling in a sea of fun and deep breaths” (Prince 2010). Prince and Kanzi, cueing, aligning, creating a rhythm, in counter- point. Gorilla-like.