Counterpoint * Recall Forsythe’s definition of counterpoint: “a field of action in which the intermittent and irregular coincidence of attributes be- tween organizational elements produces an ordered interplay.”1 This defi- nition of counterpoint emphasizes the relationship between movement and time. Forsythe speaks of choreographing the future in the present-moving, asking his dancers to “dance where the other dancer is going” to “meet him there.”2 Dancing in an alignment with futures in the making suggests a structured improvisation that is attuned to the incipient more-than of movement—movement’s technicity. To move into the technicity of move- ment is not to mimic or predict: there is no standing back from the event- in-the-moving. It is to move-with the movement’s excess of position. It is to craft movement-moving in the more-than of movement’s taking-form. This happens in counterpoint as dancers “shift each other’s time.” Forsythe explains: “syncing is not what’s important, in the sense of matching an al- ready known timing.” Move in the timeframes of the becoming-movement, preaccelerate into the relational field activated by movement-moving, move with the affective tonality, with future time presenting: “This can operate
in different timeframes: go slower, be in another’s past right before they catch up to you, then move past them to their future—look for the mo- ment—aim at it rather than going directly to it.”3 Counterpoint is not the activity of an individual body—it is the activity of a relational field through which movement moves. Movement-moving is intensively distributed— always beyond its simple location, as Whitehead would say.4 In counter- point, the movement exceeds the frame—the frame of time, the frame of the skin-envelope—activating an inframobility that tunes to a relational movement. As collective movement becomes attuned to this relational field, time folds, individual movements no longer abstractable from the whole. One movement-moving, in difference. Counterpoint.
The one is of course, always more than one. It is an infinity of movement- speciations. Speciations make dancing-body, not the other way around. We no longer have one, two, three bodies dancing. We have an affective attune- ment. This affective attunement cannot be measured in linear time. It hap-
pens in a time continuously folding through the intervals created by the moving field. This time of movement-moving is felt by the dancers as a mo- ment of uncanny synchronicity. Synchronous because the movements cre- ate a collective experience of time-shaping. Strange because the collective movement is slightly off, attuned to but in the difference of movement’s capacity to invent, creating “an ordered interplay,” yes, but also something more: a sense of having been transported into the more-than by the event. A field in counterpoint has been created. Any repetition of the exercise of counterpoint will necessarily create a different field. Each counterpoint- event makes its own time.
Counterpoint’s intermittent and irregular coincidence of attributes agitate the field of action at the level of speciations. In the case of Prince and Kanzi, it is not two fully constituted body-envelopes that dance but a multiplicity of body-tendings moving in their difference. Speciations in the moving: finger-ground-spine, extension-rotation-bend, metal-fur-breath. What agitates is a body-likeness, a field of relations that does not mimic a body, but creates a bodying in a shifting co-composition of experiential spacetimes. Von Uexküll speaks of spiders that are fly-like, of cups that are coffee-like. These are speciations—compositional tendencies active in the relational field their coming-into-eventness calls forth: “To be fly-like means that the spider has taken up certain elements of the fly in its consti- tution. . . . Better expressed, the fly-likeness of the spider means that it has taken up certain motifs of the fly melody in its bodily composition. Every- where it is the counterpoint which expresses itself as a motif in such con- figurations” (Von Uexküll 2010, 190–91). The dancer’s movement was per- haps spiral-like, wall-like, sound-like, connecting not directly to another body, but to a sounding, a spiraling, a levitating gravitational field. Heavy- to-the-ground meets laughter-in-movement: gorilla-like.
Speciations are rhythmic activations of a body-morphing that never pre- cede the event of their coming-into-relation. They give rhythm, give tone, to the how of the event’s in-forming, cutting across species fully-formed, connective as they are in the milieu of their relational activation. In the event of Prince and Kanzi, to take these two first as the human and the bonobo would be to engage in the practice of placing the subject outside the event, ignoring the force of speciation. It would be to take the notion of species as given and assume that all encounters are framed by species already fully- formed. This is a brand of identity politics: before we can know how to ap- proach the question “are you a gorilla?” we must know who you really are—a
captive gorilla, an autistic woman, a philosopher, an animal activist, a zoo- keeper, an anthropologist? While all of these criteria make a difference to how the event unfolds—there is no suggestion here that there aren’t asym- metrical power relations5—to posit identity politics as the starting point of the process is to background in advance the activity of the milieu’s rhyth- mic in-forming and, even more importantly, to undermine the potential of coming, if not to a different answer, at least to a different way of framing the question. For to begin with identity politics is always to assume to know in advance how to frame an answer to a question of belonging, of territory, of identity. To frame the event in advance of its unfolding with markers of identity (“obviously” she is not a gorilla, “clearly” Kanzi is misrecognizing) is to sidestep the act of the event’s unfolding as event: for who can know yet what constitutes gorilla in this context of movement counterpoint?
All movement is, to some degree, counterpoint. Movement rhythms: it connects, prolongs, undermines, subverts, dances. It never stops. Move- ment is always of multiple valences. There is total movement—the dura- tional field of movement-moving that envelops all worldings—and actual movement—this or that singular occasion, this or that actual displacement. Counterpoint cuts into total movement to create an actualizable field—“an ordered interplay.” In doing so, counterpoint touches on both registers of movement, virtual and actual, tapping into the field of total movement to create an opening for this singular movement-quality in the realm of the actual. The milieu of movement now resonates with the more-than. This more-than is the counterpoint-event’s motif. This motif is a likeness. It gives the milieu a singular tonality. This tone in turn tunes the milieu to cer- tain tendencies. A milieu with a springing motif tunes to air-likeness, for instance. Or, as in Von Uexküll’s example, fly-likeness tunes not to fly-as- species but to a qualitative likeness of a fly-movement intensively in rhythm with the spider’s web. This likeness is first and foremost affective—it is an attunement not simply to the fly in its quantitative dimensions, or to its be- haviors, but to the way the fly’s singular movement-tendencies affect the speciation spider-like. “The web—but never the fly—can be called the goal of forming the web. But the fly does indeed serve as the counterpoint . . . for the formation of the web” (Von Uexküll 2010, 193).6
A speciation is not, as such, organic. It is not made up of separately definable human and animal components in a metonymic relation to an organic whole. This very idea of the organic whole is a misnomer: both “body” and “species” are general categories that can only be conceived as
such by divesting them of the relational field that co-constitutes them.7 To posit such a notion of the whole is to have separated out the event of body- ing from its activity. Speciations are how to think this activity, the in-act of body-world constellations in all their organic and inorganic intermixings. These in-acts are not strictly physical—they are a conglomeration of physi- calities with affective tonalities that emerge from the very necessity of the milieu: it is the milieu that fashions them. Speciations body in the event of their direct co-relation to the event, they are not body-species pre-formed and are never finally formed—they are bodyings. An event has concern for the bodying. And there is no body that is not infinitely more than one.
An autonomy of expression is at work in the relational field speciations call forth. We are not talking of relations that exist outside of the event of their emergence. The relational field of movement-moving activates the dis- tributed field in which the dancers dance, and in the dancing, they move with it, aligning to it, moving it. The field expresses, the field dances to at- tention, not the dancers as individuals. And what it expresses is a relational movement that exceeds the terms of the dancers’ individual bodyness, bringing into complex constellations a rhythm that in-forms the specia- tions their movement-moving creates.
The culmination of the movement-moving is a territorializing. Some- thing has come to form, and with the coming-to-form, a certain casting into itself of movement has emerged. “An ordered interplay.” From here, techniques can be abstracted and positions extracted. Territories are short- lived, however: movement keeps moving, occasions keep perishing. So what is left? Motifs, expressive tendencies. These motifs are the mode of appearance of a vacillating territorialization—a mobile architecture—that is an abstraction of a subjective form. With them comes the tonality of the event’s form-taking.