Second Movement ~ At Play
The dynamic form gorilla-like is bred in play. Prince and Kanzi run, on all fours, along a fence, laughing, grunting. There is no outside to their game: it is not meant for anyone else. Play is unself-conscious. Improvisation, spon- taneity, mixed in with the constraints of incipient territorializations—the fence, the time of day, the newness of the encounter with gestures no doubt at first quizzical, careful, and then perhaps engaged, untroubled even, at times. Instinct, some people would say. Art, others would respond.
Counterpoint is creative. It proposes an assemblage and this assemblage is always, to a degree, a territorializing platform. But what counterpoint also does is keep that territory moving, active, transductive. For counter- point activates the associated milieus of the territory, the milieus that cross through it and are always, to some extent, in excess of it. This is the para- dox of counterpoint: it must remain territorial to the degree that it can be accessed and returned to. But what is returned to is always, to a certain de- gree, difference. The field of counterpoint is dynamic, its movements local insofar as they co-constitute the singular expression of emergence their in-concertness calls forth, and global to the degree that they can be recap-
tured for future events in the making. Counterpoint produces not positions as such, but the more-than of position on its way to activating times as yet unseen, unfelt. Positions outdoing themselves, in concert.
Territory’s play undoes the dichotomy between speciations and species, locating them not as opposites but on a continuum. For speciations are complex aggregates—they affect on a multitude of strata, including that of the species, elasticizing the territory even as they move in concert with it. It’s not that there is no longer a bonobo and a human, it’s that the event never begins there. It begins in movement, in the mobility of relation where there is always more than this particular species-combination. For as soon as the territory becomes an active milieu, it becomes a field of movement constellations. Species is a general category always abstracted from the movement of the event.
What is concretely in act is never the general category. This is why start- ing with a general category cannot not yield nuanced results. Take, for in- stance, the question of gender. While (en)gendering—as speciation—has many roles to play in an event such as that between Kanzi and Prince, “gen- der” posited as a pre-formed category cannot make sense of their encounter without imposing a framing device onto the event from the outside. This has the effect of backgrounding the in-act of the event, losing sight of the in- tricate complexities of the event’s acting out. For instance, a general state- ment about the general category “woman” in relation to Prince would im- mediately connect her body to a certain set of qualities or criteria that would mediate the event of her encounter with Kanzi, who, as a “male,” would then be expected to respond in certain, often stereotyped, ways. To posit the genders male/female as the framing device would also ignore the fact that gender identification tends to be speculative at best for many autistics, for whom having a fixed body, let alone a fixed gender, is one of the most abstract of all abstractions.8 What is concretely in act, I want to suggest, is never a “gender” but an engendering, a coming-into-itself of a singular set of relations, of which male-likeness and female-likeness may be defining ele- ments, but always only in their in-actness, in tandem with co-constitutive elements active in the associated milieu. This engendering opens the field to new constellations, some of which may be allied to gender, others of which may constitute forms of speciation not yet defined and categorized.
Back to the fence and to the art of play: “We consider that an animal, in a complex and accidental milieu, would have few chances of survival if he could only use stereotyped behaviour, even if more or less corrected by
orienting stimuli. Much more important are the improvised responses di- rected to the stimuli . . . that act as a sort of irritant, not as a signal” (Ruyer 1958, 149; my translation). Animals play, and play is an art, as Brian Mas- sumi (2011c) underlines, precisely because instinct, conceived as artless, is “downright maladaptive”—its stereotyping forbids a response tailored to the singularity of the situation. Following Ruyer, Massumi suggests that, at play, a processual trigger spurs a creative advance, an “immanent modi- fication. . . . The stimulus irritates, it provokes, it is a processual inducer. What it most directly induces is an integral modification of the tendencial self-consistency of the animal experience, correlated to the externality of the accident but obeying its own logic of qualitative variation.” Instinct, as Bergson writes, is played more than it is represented (Bergson 1988, 180).9 It is too simplistic, then, to suggest that what moves Kanzi, or what moves Prince, is simply behavior predating the event, such as instinct tied to gender or species categories. They are not imitating or responding to something that predefines them—they are creating play. Gorilla-like is an art. No gorilla has actually entered the scene.What has entered is a movement- constellation that has taken both Prince and Kanzi by surprise. Gorilla-like is the more-than of their coming-together, the style, the mode of existence, the motif of the event’s counterpoint. And although it is spoken in the lan- guage of the third—the sign language “of ” the gorilla—it erupts in the lan- guage of counterpoint, the language of movement’s possession by itself. The movement moves the gorilla-like speciation of which Kanzi and Prince (in a million variations) are part. Paw-earth, foot-air, laughter-dirt, grunt- metal, all of these speciations are at work in dancing the emergent counter- point. A speciation: a bloc of sensation, as Deleuze and Guattari might say. A desiring machine. “Deleuze and Guattari have a favorite word to desig- nate the affective force that pulls deformationally forward toward creativity: desire” (Massumi 2011c, 73). Desire as a transformational pull that activates
a relational field.
There is no purpose to play, except to create more play, to create more desire for play. “Are you a gorilla?” is this event of play’s postscript, not its mandate. If we take it as the starting point, the question of subjectivity will become the framing device for the event. I am, you are, a question of species. Play will be undone of precisely what makes it play: it will become a rehearsal for something that exceeds it in advance. This is not what happens here. Play between Kanzi and Prince is the fielding of relational movement, and it is out of this improvisatory field that the question “are you a gorilla?”
emerges, not the other way around. It is not a general category “gorilla” that is at stake here, but the gorilla of play’s motif, and the way the motif makes ingression into the newly formed constellation: gorilla-like.
“Play is the abstractive suspension of a vital context” (2011c, 87). It bursts open the frame of expectation. It intuits, activating a consciousness not of, but with—a regard in the playing that defies the extraction of move- ment from the event at play. This regard creates incipient territories never before moved in the playing. Not “are you a gorilla?” but “how do you move me?” or better, “how does our movement move us?” Play as the bringing into focus of an affective force of relation that reinvents, in its small way, the relational how of life-living. A constellation-machine for movement- invention and for time-looping. Counterpoint.