Third Movement ~ On Novelty
“Life means novelty,” writes Whitehead (1978, 104). Life is appetition, appe- tite for the more-than. Life always in tune with a life—the force of life-living across the organic and inorganic realms where speciations converge to cre- ate territories of difference. To restrict life to the physical plane, as White- head notes, is to starkly underestimate the play of its capacity for invention. Whitehead has a strange name for the force of appetition that activates the more-than of life-living: he calls it reason. “Reason,” for Whitehead, is another word for the force of thought that is immanent to the event. This force of thought is never thought as that which lands onto the event from outside its concrescence. It is the reason of nature, in nature, a concern with the very edges of the thinkable in its nonalignment to consciousness. For
Whitehead, nature thinks.
When Whitehead says that nature “is impenetrable by thought,” what he means is that thought does not enter into nature from the outside to orchestrate it from without (1929, 13). Nature is not a passive element to be mediated. Nor is thought a mediating activity. Nature creates thought— a thinking in the event. This thinking makes ingress into the event in large part through the constellations speciations take. Nature and speciations are co-combinatory—they cannot be taken separately. The question is never, as Whitehead underscores, “what is in the mind and what is in nature” (1929, 30). The question is “how is gorilla-like”: how does nature’s play move life- living, creating thought?
Nature’s play is never separate from the event of its coming into being in the same way that the occasion is never preceded by an already-composed notion of space or time. Nature is its speciations, active, always, in the time of the event’s making. Nature is thus never in-itself, in the same way that a species, a body, an individual, are never solely in-themselves. Nature is a relational field through which certain motifs become active, motifs that in turn activate new fields of relation in the time of the event. It is, in all of its eventness, a multitude of modes of existence, a field of creativity.
Key to what Whitehead calls “the creative advance” is what he terms self- enjoyment, the concern the event has for its coming to subjective form: “The notion of life implies a certain absoluteness of self-enjoyment” where each occasion of experience is “an individual act of immediate self-enjoyment” (1938, 150–51). Self-enjoyment is not a moral category. It is not about the enjoyment of this or that. Not the enjoyment of the subject for life, but the enjoyment of life in the event of life-living. Life-living, it bears reminding, as the continuous outdoing of any notion of life in-itself or nature in-itself. Self-enjoyment is the occasion’s concern for its own process, a process that always includes a certain more-than. This more-than, as mentioned above, is brought forth by the event’s capacity to exceed its physical pole. The physical pole is a concept in Whitehead that denotes the most bare as- pect of the occasion, a concept that is inseparable from the adjacent notion of the mental pole (or “reason”), which he defines as the how of the creative
advance.
Mentality—“a factor of intensity in experience”—moves the event be- yond its physical pole (Whitehead 1978, 101). “When the species refuses ad- venture, there is relapse into the well-attested habit of mere life. . . . Varied freshness has been lost, and the species lives upon the blind appetitions of old usages” (Whitehead 1929, 19). If the physical pole were all that were at stake, and if life were merely about a passive overcoming in the interests of self-preservation, there would be no creativity, and certainly no reinvention of life. Again, it is necessary to move beyond the thought of this or that human or animal life: life here touches on all that has the capacity for tran- sition. It is life-living, a life: speciation in exquisite more than human con- figurations.
Novelty abounds, a novelty spurred by the complex of self-enjoyment, appetition, mentality. Think mentality as the event’s thinking-feeling, as Massumi might say, a feltness in the thinking resonant at the edges of ex-
perience. Each occasion dances with this not-yet, its becoming always in counterpoint with the more-than of its will-have-been. Time folding: recall Forsythe’s “dance into future movement!” (2008; see also Massumi 2011b). Mentality is perhaps the wrong word for this intensive process, this “organ of novelty,” or “urge beyond,” for despite this not being the case, mentality, like its earlier counterpart, reason, still sounds as though it is in the mind or of consciousness (Whitehead 1929, 33). We might there- fore simply call it “thinking-feeling,” emphasizing how it is an activity in the event that co-composes with the occasion’s physicality to create, in the act, a contributory more-than that emphasizes how novelty is a process of thought in the doing. Mentality “seeks to vivify the massive physical fact, which is repetitive, with the novelties which beckon” (Whitehead 1929, 33). The force of appetition, as mentioned above, could be another good term for mentality in that it emphasizes the hunger of a process which opens the occasion to novel motifs, activating in the occasion a “factor of anarchy”
(Whitehead 1929, 34).10
This is not to say that creative advance is active all the time under all circumstances. It is to emphasize the fact that the force of appetition and thinking-feeling are always present in germ and contributory in the dy- namic form of events concrescing. Whitehead writes: “The quality of an act of experience is largely determined by the factor of the thinking it contains” (1929, 80). As soon as a process falls into general categories, its capacity for creative advance is stunted, for general categories don’t think. Creativity is always in the dynamic details of a process. These details are played out at the level of the emergent occasion in the constellation of the event. They are its speciations, its technicities, its overarticulations, its preaccelerations. They are the event’s more-than. This is where the thinking-feeling happens, in the in-act of the event’s outdoing of form, in the in-act of the event’s out- doing of simple location. Movement-moving.