Whitehead writes: “The community of actual things is an organism, but it is not a static organism. It is an incompletion in process of production” (1978, 215). Kanzi and Prince meet. Play ensues. Their movement moves them, connecting them at the level of speciations that exceed them as individuals. In the speciation, a counterpoint emerges. This emergent counterpoint is a structured improvisation: it moves into the habitual movements brought
into play at the same time as it connects to a generative field of movement- moving. The generative force of movement in counterpoint activated in the moving creates a motif. This prolongs the dance, giving it a style all its own. This style exceeds Prince or Kanzi as individuals, exceeds their habitual ways of moving—a relational movement has emerged. This relational movement is a field experience. Everything is concretely at play—the quality of air, the sound of breath on metal, on fur, on skin, the feel of paws on earth, on ce- ment, the heaviness of limbs at play, the grumblings of stomachs, the pull of muscles, the rustlings of fallen leaves. Everything singularly contributes. And in this field teeming with activity, a question is drawn: “Are you a go- rilla?” This is not a question intended to be answered: it is a motif. It is a platform to spring from through which new movement-constellations can take flight. Gorilla-like is a new concept.
New concepts, when they really do their work, activate speciations, which, in turn, affect how societies evolve. A society: “A type of order. . . . A nexus. . . . Endurance. . . . An animal body is a society involving a vast number of occasions, spatially and temporally coordinated. . . . Each living body is a society” (Whitehead 1967, 203–5). As chapter 2 emphasizes, what we usually call a body, a body in the narrow sense, is not a knot of specia- tions (a nexus), a society. This is the force of concepts, that they insist, they irritate, they agitate in the cross-fertilization of occasions and societies. These agitations play out on the level of the occasion, but as the occasion perishes onto the nexus, they also affect the contributive realm—for they continue to make ingress. Concepts resonate transversally, creating a vibra- tory field that affects how future events are composed. They feed the future- presenting with their appetite for more. They are counterpoint machines: they create a field of action that provokes a coincidence of attributes to pro- duce the excess of an ordered interplay. Gorilla-like.
The complex relational field of movement-moving courses across the societies “Dawn Prince” and “Kanzi.” These societies are altered by the pro- cess, as are all of the contributory forces that have made their way into the event. These contributory forces touch on the many stories the event calls forth, each one of them now tainted by the motif, gorilla-like. Take the story of Kanzi, born October 28, 1980, a bonobo chimpanzee raised in captivity, for whom contact has been for the most part restricted to the human. In- fuse this story into the event and consider how gorilla-like reframes it, fore- grounding, perhaps, the fact that Kanzi’s “advanced linguistic aptitude” has made language the vehicle for communication since he was a baby. For
not only does he use lexigrams but he can also understand aspects of spo- ken language and associate it with the lexigrams. No surprise, then, that gorilla-like emerges in the speaking as much as in the moving. Take the story of Dawn Prince, born January 31, 1964, an autistic fighting for a place in a world tuned to neurotypical modes of encounter that continuously, painfully, set her apart. Infuse this story into the event and consider how gorilla-like speaks to the force of “another regard,” something Prince has honed in her years of working with gorillas, gorillas who she feels have offered her a place in the world. These are some of the societies, in brief, that meet on that fateful afternoon to play along the fence.
The contributory force of a society (a nexus of occasions) on an indi- vidual occasion is not quantitatively measurable. Ingression is not about quantitative content per se: it is about the tuning of an occasion toward certain kinds of activations of the past in the present for future-presenting. Style. Style carries across occasions, giving them a sense of consistency. The relational field as it emerges through Kanzi and Prince’s play is imbued with style, marked and fashioned by modes of thought—mentalities—already in counterpoint with their wider comings-to-be. With this in mind, in the spirit of incompletion, I want to turn briefly to one key element of style that I believe makes the question “are you a gorilla?” far less strange than we may at first have assumed it to be. I want to turn once again to autistic perception: a style of perception wherein an encounter with the world does not begin by sorting the field into objects or subjects.
But first, let me repeat: autistic perception is a tendency in perception on a continuum with all perception, not a definition of autism. It is a style that has been remarked upon by the many autistics whose voices we’ve heard throughout, a perceptual style that actively thinks-feels the edgings and contourings of fields of relation coagulating into instances of shaped ex- perience. As the writings of these autistics attest to, the direct experience of the in-actness of worlding results in an ecological sensibility to life-living. Lest it has not been clear enough when the concept has come up through- out this book, let me repeat: while all autistics I have encountered prize this mode of perception, none of them would ever create a simplified relay between autistic perception and the everyday experience of an autistic. For autism is a complex world at once full of perceptual richness and replete with painful misalignments to everyday neurotypical existence, many of them of the motor variety that make independent living if not impossible, then very difficult.11 Not only that: there is no “single” autism. Autism is
a spectrum,with as many infinities of perceptual difference as there are within the misidentified “neurotypical” group.
What makes autistic perception so valuable for the rethinking of experi- ence is the process of shaping, or the complexity of what Anne Corwin calls “chunking.” Anne Corwin writes: “I often tend to sit on floors and other sur- faces even if furniture is available, because it’s a lot easier to identify ‘flat surface a person can sit on’ than it is to sort the environment into chunks like ‘couch,’ ‘chair,’ ‘floor,’ and ‘coffee table.’”12 All perception involves chunking, but what autistics have access to that is usually backgrounded for neurotypicals is the direct experience of the relational field’s morphing into objects and subjects. Experientially speaking, there is never—for anyone— the direct apprehension of an object or a subject. What we perceive is always first a relational field. It is a key contribution of Whitehead to have created a whole philosophical vocabulary of process to make this clear. Still, given the quickness of the morphing from the relational field into the objects and subjects of our perceptions, many of us neurotypicals feel as though the world is “pre-chunked” into species, into bodies and individuals. This is the shortcoming, as autistics might say, of neurotypical perception (that we are simply too quick to chunk), and it is certainly one of the things that makes many autistics feel lost in a world overtaken by normopaths.
The foregrounding of the world in its morphability as experienced in autistic perception opens experience to a level of relation with the world which is rare. This level of relation is an ecological attunement to the multi- plicity that is life-living, for it attends, always, to the dynamic details of a process: autistic perception never begins with the general attribute, never assumes integration over complexity. It prehends, always, from the middle, with an active regard for the emergent field’s environmentality. In the reg- ister of autistic perception, the world is experienced as an ecology of prac- tices. This results in a mode of existence that moves not from self to self, or self to other, but from dynamic constellation to dynamic constellation. As Mukhopadhyay writes: “Maybe I do not have to try very hard to be the wind or a rain cloud. There is a big sense of extreme connection I feel with a stone or perhaps with a pen on a tabletop or a tree. . . . There is no separation” (Mukhopadhyay and Savarese 2010). Cloud-like. Rock-like.
If we ignore the nonhuman-centered valence of Prince’s or Mukhopad- hyay’s approach and persist in placing the human at the forefront as the motivating force of all events, their words will seem anthropomorphic. We will read Prince’s encounter with Kanzi simply as a human once more telling
the story of an animal, in human terms; we will interpret Mukhopadhyay as giving a human face to the pen, to the tabletop, to the tree. Autistic percep- tion warns us against this approach, however, persistently reminding us not to begin with the pre-chunked. Begin in the middle! it says. Don’t assume to know in advance how the chunking will resolve! It seems to me that we should heed these words and learn from them, with them. That we might listen more intently to how the world composes itself in a mode of percep- tion that does not privilege the human in any of its precomposed guises or any other general categories.
But let us not stop there. The accusation of anthropomorphism whether misplaced as in the case of Kanzi and Prince, or fitting in other instances, need not be a reason for us to return to our old habits of generalizing and categorizing. For is it not true that the accusation of anthropomorphism has become one more way of not attending to the complex counterpoint of the creative advance? As Jane Bennett writes, a “touch of anthropomor- phism . . . can catalyze a sensibility that finds a world filled not with onto- logically distinct categories of beings (subjects and objects) but with vari- ously composed materialities that form confederations. . . . Maybe it is worth running the risks associated with anthropomorphizing . . . because it, oddly enough, works against anthropocentrism: a chord is struck be- tween person and thing, and I am no longer above or outside a nonhuman ‘environment’ ” (2010, 99, 120).
There is counterpoint in infinite abundance and we are not hearing it, let alone dancing it. Ecologies of perception are backgrounded by an overarch- ing emphasis on general categories. New modes of attention are needed, and persistent efforts to experience the novelty of life-living are essential to enjoying the complexity of worldings that populates us. The more pressing question is not whether or not an engagement with the more-than human is anthropomorphic but what exactly it is that has led us to the certainty we seem to have that the world can be parsed out into subjects and objects, and how intertwined this assertion has become with a notion of interactivity that sets itself up not as a radical empiricism but as a mediating interplay between already-existent terms. James’s mantra bears repeating: “the rela- tions that connect experiences must themselves be experienced relations, and any kind of relation experienced must be accounted as ‘real’ as any- thing else in the system” (1996, 42). There is no object “in-itself” just as there is no subject only “for-itself.” To cite Whitehead again, “the occasion has a ‘concern’ for the object. And the concern at once places the object as