interlude: When Movement Dances
The epigraph for this interlude is from Gil 2001.
TwO. Always More Than One
The epigraph for this chapter is from Deleuze (2007, 390–91).
1 On the body as more-than, Whitehead writes: “Consider one definite molecule. It is part of nature. It has moved about for millions of years. Perhaps it started from a distant nebula. It enters the body; it may be as a factor in some edible vegetable; or it passes into the lungs as part of the air. At what exact point as it enters the mouth, or as it is absorbed through the skin, is it part of the body? At what exact moment, later on, does it cease to be part of the body? Exactness is out of the question. It can only be obtained by some trivial convention” (1933, 30).
2 It was only upon completion of Always More Than One that I came across the work of David Abram (1996) and his similar concept of the more than human. I share with Abram the belief that the more-than is a relational field that must be tended ecologically. In The Spell of the Sensuous, Abram writes: “Humans are tuned for re- lationship. The eyes, the skin, the tongue, ears, nostrils—all are gates where our body receives the nourishment of otherness. . . . For the largest part of our species’ existence, humans have negotiated relationships with every aspect of the sensuous surroundings, exchanging possibilities with every flapping form, with each textured surface and shivering entity that we happened to focus upon. . . . And from all of these relationships our collective sensibilities were nourished” (1996, ix). Where I depart from him is that, rather than turning to phenomenology to explore this, I turn to process philosophy. To read more on my position concerning the more than human in relation to phenomenology, and on Merleau-Ponty’s relationship to Whiteheadian thought, see Manning, “Wondering the World” in Body and Society (forthcoming).
3 A more involved exploration of the concept of engendering can be found in “En- genderings: Gender, Politics, Individuation” in Politics of Touch (Manning 2007).
4 I follow Jane Bennett here. Bennett writes: “My aim . . . is to theorize a vitality intrinsic to materiality as such, and to detach materiality from the figures of the passive, mechanistic or divinely infused substance. This vibrant matter is not the raw material from the creative activity of humans or God” (2010, xiii).
5 This is a term developed by Isabelle Stengers (2010) in reference to Félix Guat- tari. In her work on an ecology of practices, Stengers emphasizes “thinking par le milieu” using the French double meaning of milieu, both the middle and the surrounding or habitat. “Par le mileu,” or ecologically, means that there is never the opportunity to disentangle the event from its particular surrounding. This is an etho-ecology that emphasizes that there can be no relevant ecology without a correlate ethology, ethology here understood in the Spinozist sense. As Deleuze explains in relation to Spinoza’s concept of ethology, this is less a moral stand- point than a “practical science of the manners of being” (1980).
6 My translations throughout for the texts that are as yet untranslated into English.
For the Muriel Combes translations, I used Thomas Lamarre’s translation, cur- rently in press at Mit in the Technologies of Lived Abstraction book series.