interlude: Dancing the Virtual
1 Throughout Always More Than One, I define “speciation” in a way very different from the mainstream notion, coming out of evolutionary theory, that under- stands speciation as the evolutionary process by which new biological species arise. In my work, speciation never leads to a species. It refers instead to the processual force of the not-yet that exceeds the concept of species. Speciations are what connect in the moving, I am suggesting, and not species in the sense of discrete categories of being. Speciations are neither organic nor inorganic—they are series, as Deleuze defines them, affective tonalities in act that merge tenden- cies for form and force.
2 William Forsythe, from Forsythe Company rehearsal, Frankfurt, November 16, 2010.
3 For documentation of the event Society of Molecules, as well as interviews on micropolitics with Isabelle Stengers, Bruno Latour, Maurizio Lazzarato, Barbara Glowczewski, Julia Loktev, Adam Bobette, and Brian Massumi, see “From Noun to Verb: The Micropolitics of ‘Making Collectives,’ ” Inflexions 3 (October 2009), http://www.inflexions.org/issues.html#i3. For more on the SenseLab and So- ciety of Molecules, see http://senselab.ca/events/technologies-of-lived-abstraction/ society-of-molecules-2009.
4 In cases where the host might leave during the five-month period, allowances within the movement profile had to be made. This became quite interesting as it required another member of the local molecule to move into the host’s move- ment profile for the duration of the host’s absence.
5 William Forsythe, from Forsythe Company rehearsal, Frankfurt, November 18, 2010.
6 Ibid.
7 William Forsythe, from Forsythe Company rehearsal, Frankfurt, November 13, 2010.
8 Gil’s (1985) concept of exfoliation is explored at length in Metamorphoses of the Body. The concept of exfoliation suggests the creation of space through which body and space co-compose.
9 William Forsythe, from Forsythe Company rehearsal, Frankfurt, November 20, 2010.
Three. Waltzing the Limit
1 Waltz with Bashir was made first as a nonanimated video based on a ninety-page script and then transformed into animation (with 2,300 illustrations drawn by the art director David Polonsky and his three assistants). The animation format is a combination of Flash animation, classic animation, and 3D. In an interview with Erica Abeel from indieWIRE, Ari Folman discusses his use of animation for this film (with the exception of the last scene of the film, which is documentary archival footage of the Sabra and Shatila massacre). He says, “I had the basic idea for the film for several years, but I was not happy to do it in real life video. How would that have looked like? . . . If it could be done in animation with fantastic drawings, it would capture the surreal aspect of war. If you look at all the ele- ments in the film—memory, lost memory, dreams, the subconscious, hallucina- tions, drugs, youth, lost youth—the only way to combine all those things in one storyline was drawings and animation. You know, the question most frequently asked since Cannes is ‘why animation?’ And it’s a question that’s absurd to me. I mean, how else could it have been done? . . . [With animation] you can go from one dimension to another. . . . I think you get enormous freedom with animation and illustrations. It’s a really great language for me, the best. You can imagine everything” (Folman and Abeel 2009).
2 In fact, this scene is almost identical to the final scene of the film, except that in the last scene, the camera will not turn its back on the women, and the face will open itself to the unthinkable suffering of the massacre.
3 Deleuze speaks of the necessity for “the actual image [to] enter into relation with its own virtual image as such; from the outset pure description must divide in two, ‘repeat itself, take itself up again, fork, contradict itself.’ An image which is double-sided, mutual, both actual and virtual, must be constituted. . . . We are in a situation of an actual image and its own virtual image, to the extent that there is no longer any linkage of the real with the fictional, but indiscernibility of the two, a perpetual exchange. . . . And just as the real and the fictional become indiscern- ible in certain very specific conditions of the image, the true and the false now become undecidable or inextricable: the impossible proceeds from the possible, and the past is not necessarily true” (1989, 274–75; translation modified).
4 This is not a film about personal redemption. In response to a question about the “therapeutic” aspects of making this film about “his” experience as a soldier in the Lebanon war, Ari Folman says: “I’d say the filmmaking part was good, but the therapy aspect sucked” (Folman and Abeel 2009). Elsewhere, underscor- ing the dynamic aspect of experience, he says: “My belief is that any kind of film- making is therapy; but, it’s dynamic. You’re actually doing something” (Folman and Guillén 2009).
5 In his excellent work on anime, Thomas Lamarre works with the concept of the “superflat,” suggesting that it is the very flatness of the animated image that
creates the potential for a certain kind of metamorphosis and timing. He writes: “This is because, if one thinks about flatness in terms of two-dimensional sur- faces, then the logical question becomes: how does anything happen in this sur- face world? How does anything come forth or vanish? And how is such change expressed? Clearly, events and change can be expressed only in terms of an inter- action of surfaces, as a movement of surfaces on surfaces, as shift from surface to surface. I should like to stretch Murakami’s superflat, and think of a superflat that entails flat interactions or flat articulations. That is, the superflat becomes a quality of movement, change or transformation. In effect, the supposedly flat and depthless characters and figures in anime are superflat. In their very flatness, they are traversed by a potential for interaction, motion and transformation. They move on a specific field of forces” (Lamarre 2002, 338). While Waltz with Bashir does not fit into the category of anime, the use I am making of the idea of sur- face resonates with Lamarre’s analysis and is informed by it. See also Lamarre 2009, where he develops, much more thoroughly than I do here, the concept of animation and its potential as a visual and cultural practice.
6 In the English translation of Deleuze’s cinema books, fabulation is translated as storytelling, which in its common definition departs from the way Deleuze is using the term. Fabulation, or the “function of fabulation,” is a concept Deleuze takes from Bergson that departs from the idea of narrative to touch on the ques- tion of what Deleuze calls “the power of the false.” It is also implicitly aligned with the notion of “intercessor” (often mistranslated into English as “media- tor”), which Deleuze defines as the conduit for expression. Deleuze writes: “Whether they’re real or fictional, animate or inanimate, we must create our intercessors. It’s a series. If we do not form a series, even completely imaginary, we are lost. I need my intercessors to express myself, and they could never express themselves without me: when we work we are always many, even when it is not obvious” (1995, 125; translation modified). Fabulation follows from this notion of a manyness of expression. In Deleuze’s text on intercessors, it is through Pierre Perrault’s work that Deleuze activates the concept of fabulation. Deleuze writes: “The fabrication of intercessors in a community stands out in the work of the Canadian cinematographer Pierre Perrault: I gave myself intercessors, and this is how I can say what I have to say. Perrault thinks that, if he speaks alone, even if he invents fictions, he’s bound to come out with an intellectual discourse, he won’t be able to get away from a ‘master’s or colonist discourse,’ an estab- lished discourse. What is needed: to catch someone else ‘legending,’ ‘caught in the act of legending.’ Then a minority discourse, between two or several, begins to form. We here come upon what Bergson calls ‘fabulation.’ . . . To catch people in the act of legending is to catch the movement of the constitution of a people. Peoples do not preexist” (1995, 126; translation modified). This ties in with what Deleuze writes in Cinema 2: “When Perrault is addressing his real characters of Quebec, it is not simply to eliminate fiction but to free it from the model of truth
which penetrates it, and on the contrary to rediscover the pure and simple func- tion of fabulation which is opposed to this model. What is opposed to fiction is not the real; it is not the truth which is always that of the masters or colonizers; it is the fabulatory function for the poor, insofar as it gives the false the power that makes it into a memory, a legend, a monster” (1989, 150; translation modified).
7 “Pure experience” is the term William James gives to the virtual-actual nexus of experience in the making. James writes: “The instant field of the present is at all times what I call the ‘pure’ experience. It is only virtually or potentially either subject or object as yet. For the time being, it is plain, unqualified actuality, or existence, a simple that” (1996, 23).
8 Ari Folman also speaks of the movements of the film as being aberrant, refer- ring especially to the strange gait of the animated characters. He says, “Look at the motion. People don’t walk in reality like they walk in this film. It’s a different kind of walk we developed, slow and awkward. We had problems in animation creating this slow movement. It’s much easier to make action scenes” (Folman and Abeel 2009).
9 In the preface to the Chinese translation of A Thousand Plateaus, Brian Massumi writes: “What is at issue philosophically is never the empirical question of “what” something is (the question of being). It is the pragmatic question of ‘how’ things go (the question of becoming-oriented). What is always at issue philosophically is this pragmatic question, taken to the limit of thought” (2010b, 12).
10 In Cinema 2 Deleuze connects a cinema that creates time (creating thought) to one that departs from a certain fascism of the cinematographic. Citing Artaud, Deleuze writes: “the image must produce a shock, a nerve-wave which gives rise to thought” (1989, 165). Microfascisms are challenged by the “as yet unthought” allowing us to “discover the identity of thought and life” where “the whole is the outside” and “what counts is the interstice between images” (Deleuze 1989, 179).
11 While it is clear that the filmmaker “represents” Ari Folman, we never actually get to know the character. We know only that he was a soldier and now makes films and that this is a film he is moved to make. “I’m just a filmmaker!” he says when Boaz seeks his help about the dog nightmare. “Can’t films be therapeu- tic?” Boaz asks. The filmmaker does not answer directly, except to say that he has not had any flashbacks: “The truth is, that’s not stored in my system,” he says, referring to the Sabra and Shatila massacre. “You never think about it?” Boaz in- sists. “No, no . . . no,” the filmmaker responds, his face impassive. They hug and go their separate ways. “I’ll think of something,” the filmmaker says. Waltz with Bashir is the force of thought this thinking propels.
12 For more on back-gridding and experience, see “Concrete Is as Concrete Doesn’t” in Massumi 2002.
13 The “techno” sound for this scene was made from ninety-eight tracks reduced to five, as Ari Folman has explained (Folman and Abeel 2009).
14 The graphic novel Waltz with Bashir is completely different from the film, de- spite the fact that the images are original animated drawings and the text is the same. Without the movement-across of the cinematic imagescape, the affective tonality of the surface as a life does not come through. In the graphic novel the text takes over and the images become aids or representations to the story. As a result, the characters take on a more standard “personality,” and the story thus becomes more traditional in its telling. This is not to suggest that only cinematic images have movement. For stills that are resonant with absolute movement, see any of Leni Riefenstahl’s photographs from Olympia (this question of the still-in- movement is further developed in “From Biopolitics to the Biogram” in Manning 2009).
15 On the topic of movement and anime, Thomas Lamarre writes: “Animation then becomes something other than a process of animating figures, of drawing all the stages to produce seamless movement. It is a process of inventing machines of movement—machines of walking, of talking, of running, leaping, flying, and so forth—that take up all manner of objects” (2002, 339).
16 For more on semblance and event, see Massumi 2011b.
17 Deleuze and Guattari write: “The plane of immanence is not a concept that is or can be thought but rather the image of thought, the image thought gives itself of what it means to think, to make use of thought, to find one’s bearings in thought. . . . Thought demands ‘only’ movement that can be carried on to infinity. What thought claims by right, what it selects, is infinite movement or the move- ment of the infinite. It is this that constitutes the image of thought” (1994, 37).
18 I say this while being fully aware of the conflicting responses to the film and the disavowal of the film from many left-wing groups in Israel, Palestine, and abroad. That Waltz with Bashir is a film that awakens paradoxical responses is its strength, I believe, and its politics. Critiques follow two major lines: denounc- ing its lack of political commitment (see Todd Brown below) and critiquing the absence of Palestinians in the role of writing history, resulting in its incapacity to do justice to the horror (see Naira Antoun below).
Todd Brown writes: “In many ways, this is the hardest review I’ve ever sat down and committed myself to writing. I regret watching Ari Folman’s Waltz with Bashir. No, it’s not because it was a waste of time. It wasn’t because it was bad filmmaking. On the contrary, it is filmmaking at its finest. Waltz with Bashir is, at the very least, an astounding animated documentary with incredible origi- nality and breathtaking impact, a film that must be watched by anyone with even a passing interest in world affairs or Middle Eastern History. . . . While Waltz with Bashir occupies the upper end of the scale in terms of quality filmmaking, it incredibly dominates the lower end of the political propaganda spectrum with its insidiousness. . . . While I applaud Folman for attempting to face up to the guilt of the Sabra and Shatila massacre, this film falls utterly short of making any commitment on the issue, instead choosing to weasel out of the grasp of
responsibility which even Israel’s own Kahan Commission had assigned to the iDf” (see the full review at http://twitchfilm.com/reviews/2009/10/waltz-with- bashir-reviewwal.php).
The second line of critique is the one I am more interested in. Antoun’s cri- tique below seems to me to be extremely important, but also short-sighted in terms of the political techniques it foregrounds, many of which firmly reside within the realm of identity politics. My reading of the film does not seek to dis- qualify the question of responsibility such a critique brings up. Quite the con- trary: I explore the notion of responsibility through the film’s reproblematization of memory, experience, and the political via its use of affect, rhythm and surface. Whether or not the film ultimately does justice to the horror of the massacre cannot be the question, it seems to me, as nothing could do the massacre justice. How movements of thought are generated by art, how surfacings are complicated through the qualitative expressions of the transcendental field art can activate is what I hope to address here. To attend to these issues in a nuanced manner, it is important to keep in mind the differential between molar and molecular ques- tions. Identity politics, as I argue in the final coda, are always located in the reg- ister of the molar, and from there quickly fall into a personalization of politics. A third way that does not repersonalize the political must surely be thinkable?
Naira Antoun writes: “To say that Palestinians are absent in Waltz with Bashir, to say that it is a film that deals not with Palestinians but with Israelis who served in Lebanon, only barely begins to describe the violence that this film commits against Palestinians. There is nothing interesting or new in the depiction of Palestinians—they have no names, they don’t speak, they are anonymous. But they are not simply faceless victims. Instead, the victims in the story that Waltz with Bashir tells are Israeli soldiers. Their anguish, their questioning, their confu- sion, their pain—it is this that is intended to pull us. The rotoscope animation is beautifully done, the facial expressions so engaging, subtle and torn, we find ourselves grimacing and gasping at the trials and tribulations of the young Israeli soldiers and their older agonizing selves. We don’t see Palestinian facial expres- sions; only a lingering on dead, anonymous faces. So while Palestinians are never fully human, Israelis are, and indeed are humanized through the course of the film. . . . In the final analysis, this is what Waltz with Bashir is about: the evasion of responsibility. It is not that the self-reflection offered by the film is only partial, and that we would simply be nay-sayers to be dissatisfied with it. Because there is no sense of what the Israeli role in Lebanon was, because it is about ethically and morally redeeming the filmmaker and his contemporaries—and by extension the Israeli self, military and nation, the Israeli collective in other words—because of all this, the film is an act not of limited self-reflection but self-justification. It is a striving towards working through qualms to restabilize the self as it is currently constituted; it does not ask challenging questions that would destabilize that self” (see the full review at http://electronicintifada.net/v2/article10322.shtml).
19 Empathy is not affective. It is an emotion that operates within the register of the first person singular, where “I” see “you,” where subject and object are pre- defined. As I will outline at the end of the chapter, there is an important dif- ference between “responsibility for” the other and responsibility “before” the other, the first based on an ethics of recognition. Being responsible “before” the other involves the embrace not of an other qua human other but of a tendency toward a generative field where self and other are not yet differentiated. We are responsible before in a collective individuation that resonates on the cusp of the actual and the virtual where experience has not yet devolved into form and where the stakes are not laid out in advance.
20 Enola Gay is the name given to the Boeing B-29 Superfortress bomber that dropped the first atomic bomb on Hiroshima.
21 Cake’s “I Bombed Korea” is reworked into “Beirut” by Ze’ve Tene.
22 This scene is strangely reminiscent of the dappled forest scenes and classical music in Terrence Malick’s Thin Red Line (1999).
23 “‘Fiat ars—pereat mundus’ says fascism, expecting from war, as Marinetti ad- mits, the artistic gratification of sense perception altered by technology. This is evidently the consummation of l’art pour l’art. Humankind, which once, in Homer, was an object of contemplation for the Olympian gods, has now be- come one for itself. Its self-alienation has reached the point where it can experi- ence its own alienation as a supreme aesthetic pleasure. Such is the aestheticiz- ing of politics, as practiced by fascism. Communism replies by politicizing art” (Benjamin 2002 [1936], 122).
24 Deleuze’s concept of the diagram (particularly as he develops it in relation to Francis Bacon’s work in Logic of Sensation) is closely allied to my use of the bio- gram. See also “Strange Horizons: Building, Biograms and the Body Topologic” in Massumi’s Parables for the Virtual (2002).
25 “The territory is the surface form extruded by the life-priming of bare activity. It is the effective form of expression of what Deleuze and Guattari would call a cutting edge of deterritorialization, understood as the processual suspension of prior griddings remitted to the formative commotion from which they emerged” (Massumi, forthcoming).
26 For more on the relationship between the political and politics, see Rancière 1999.
27 See also Foucault’s introduction to Deleuze and Guattari’s Anti-Oedipus, which he calls a “handbook for anti-fascist living.” Foucault writes: “How does one keep from being fascist, even (especially) when one believes oneself to be a revo- lutionary militant? how do we rid our speech and our acts, our hearts and our pleasures, of fascism? how do we ferret out the fascism that is ingrained in our behavior?” (1983, xiii).
28 “Writers are sorcerers because they experience the animal as the only population before which they are responsible in principle. The German preromantic Karl
Philipp Moritz feels responsible not for the calves that die but before the calves that die and give him the incredible feeling of an unknown Nature-affect. For the affect is not a personal feeling, nor is it a characteristic; it is the effectuation of a power of the pack that throws the self into upheaval and makes it reel. Who has not known the violence of these animal sequences, which uproot one from humanity, if only for an instant, making one scrape at one’s bread like a rodent or giving one the yellow eyes of a feline? A fearsome involution calling us toward unheard-of becomings. These are not regressions, although fragments of regres- sion, sequences of regression may enter in” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 240; my emphasis).
29 Comprehension suggests a holding-together of “facts” with a sense of “objec- tivity.” On the subject of objectivity and its relation to filmmaking, Ari Folman says: “I don’t believe in objectivity. There is no objectivity in filmmaking. Logi- cally, it cannot exist. The basic fact that you go into an editing room with 200 hours of footage and by the end of the editing process come out with a film that is 50 minutes or an hour negates objectivity” (Folman and Guillén 2009).
30 On the topic of blame, in answer to Erica Abeel’s question “Why didn’t you hold the leadership more to account? Sharon was complicit, after all, he allowed the massacre to happen,” Ari Folman responds: “I didn’t want to make any state- ment about the leadership. I wanted to re-create the world of the ordinary sol- dier. There was a commission that found Sharon guilty, he was banned from office for life, then he came back as Prime Minister, came back as a hero, think of it. Those things happen in Israel. . . . Bottom line, for me it was not a revenge film against Ariel Sharon. As for why he didn’t stop the massacre, he’s asleep now, so we can’t ask him. The whole plan for Lebanon was so sick, to my mind. What the master plan was nobody really knows” (Folman and Abeel 2009). I quote this to emphasize the push/pull between the molar and molecular as it plays out both in Waltz with Bashir and in my reading of it.
31 For a thought-provoking article on Waltz with Bashir, see Gary Kamiya’s “What
Waltz with Bashir Can Teach Us about Gaza” (2009).
32 For a more sustained exploration of my views on the horror of the face with re- spect to Levinas’s and Deleuze and Guattari’s theories of faciality, see “Face to Face with the Incommensurable” in Ephemeral Territories (Manning 2003).
33 See “Year 0: Faciality” in Deleuze and Guattari 1987.
34 Deleuze and Guattari write: “Memories of a Sorcerer, I. A becoming-animal always involves a pack, a band, a population, a peopling, in short, a multiplicity. We sorcerers have always known that” (1987, 688).
FOur. Propositions for the Verge
1 This is not to deny the role choreography as a disciplinary technique has histori- cally played in dance. André Lepecki writes, for instance, of the majoritarian role choreography has played: “Let us not forget that choreographic power is genea- logically majoritarian in the sense that ‘choreography’ names a very specific masculinist, fatherly, Stately, judicial, theological, and disciplinary project—a project that, moreover, removed dance from its social terrain (the communal yard) and placed it in a private (courtly) chamber, thus subordinating dance to signification, to full presence, and to archiving. In other words: at a certain point in the history of Western subjectivity, a certain social (and socializing) activity called dance fell prey to a Stately (and theological) apparatus of capture called choreography. As I have written elsewhere . . . , this falling prey took place under the auspices of two fathers: a Jesuit priest who happened to be an ecclesiasti- cal judge and a lawyer who happened to be a mathematician. These two charac- ters of majoritarian masculinity—Thoinot Arbeau and his alter ego, the student Capriol—join forces under the power of State, Justice, Science, and God to cre- ate the new art of moving rigorously and privately, which Arbeau named orchesog- raphy. That the first exercise of Arbeau’s homonymous dance manual published in 1589 is a martial march to the rhythms of a military drum only reinforces the utilitarian possibilities that the choreographic brings to dance and movement for use by the State. Under the Stately apparatus of capture, dance can be mobi- lized to the Stately war machine. Moreover, under the Judgment of God, choreo- graphic power turns the body into a subordinate, a subjugated subject, to that entity Jacques Derrida once identified, in his essay on Artaud, as a god-robber- of-bodies” (2007, 122–23). I do not deny this. And yet, as I argued in chapter 3, the minoritarian potential of a practice is always also at stake. The work I pro- pose to do here places the concept of the choreographic back into a minoritarian frame to ask how it might function as or in relation to a micropolitical practice such as an activist philosophy.
2 Bojana Cvejic’s work is also interesting in this regard. She writes: “What does it mean for the art of choreography to think its territory as a field of forces, and the movement of the body not as an instrument, medium, or site of inscription, but as the machine driving a desiring production?” (Etcetera 98, 2005) at http:// metteingvartsen.net/etcetera-bojana-cvejic/. For her work on and collaboration with Teresa de Keersmaeker, see also A Choreographer’s Score.
3 In Deborah Hay’s words, “What if each cell in the body (currently estimated at 100 trillion) had the potential to get what it needs, while surrendering the habit of a singular facing, and inviting being seen?” (qtd. in Goldman 2009, 283).
4 Time signatures as I am using them here have nothing to do with the ways they are used in musical scores. In musical scoring a time signature refers to the nu- merical sign placed at the beginning of a piece of music, or during the course
of it, to indicate the meter of the piece. In this case, the time signature helps to determine the number of beats to a measure. Throughout Always More Than One, I use time signature as a means of conceiving the singularity of time-as-rhythm in the becoming-actual of an event’s duration.
5 William Forsythe was the director of the Ballet Frankfurt from 1984 to 2004, dur- ing which period seminal pieces were crafted, such as Artifact (1984), The Loss of Small Detail (1991), Eidos: Telos (1995), and Decreation (2003). In 2005 the company moved from the state-funded Frankfurt Opera to become the Forsythe Company.
6 Deleuze defines the diagram, via Francis Bacon, as “the operative set of asignify- ing and nonrepresentative lines and zones, line-strokes and colour-patches” whose function “is to be suggestive” (2003, 101). He speaks of the diagram being capable of “unlock[ing] areas of sensation,” suggesting that the diagram is “chaos, a catastrophe, but . . . also a germ of order or rhythm” (Deleuze 2003, 102).
7 Whitehead writes: “The ‘locus’ of a proposition consists of those actual occa- sions whose actual worlds include the logical subjects of the proposition. When an actual entity belongs to the locus of a proposition, then conversely the propo- sition is an element in the lure for feeling of that actual entity. If by the decision of the concrescence, the proposition has been admitted into feeling, then the proposition constitutes what the feeling has felt. The proposition constitutes a lure for a member of its locus by reason of the germaneness of the complex predicate to the logical subjects, having regard to forms of definiteness in the actual world of that member, and to its antecedent phases of feeling” (1978, 186; my emphasis). Decision is immanent to the process of concrescence in White- head. I sometimes use “cut” rather than “decision” to underline the way in which decision operates not from outside the occasion but participates in the differ- ence of its unfolding. There is no event without decision, and no decision that can alter an already constituted event.
8 In the watching of dance, there is a similar qualitative transformation of what a (perceiving) body can do. This occurs partly due to the work of mirror neurons but also through the way time loops such that what we see is already also that which we have remembered. Not memory of the past but memory in the moving toward an open future dancing itself before our eyes.
9 The process of moving through the metastability of verticalizing- and horizontalizing-balances that walking requires is very apparent in children learning to walk. The first stage of walking tends toward a falling back: from sit- ting to standing to sitting. Verticality is tended toward as a limit that throws the movement back. In the second stage, a tottering occurs whereby momentum is gathered for forward-falling. This translates into saccaded steps, each step its own dynamic form. For walking to ensue, the steps themselves must become absorbed into the horizontal advance of the movement. This backgrounds the steps as such, allowing the momentum of horizontality to take over.
10 I explore the idea of movement, posture, and balance more fully in an interlude entitled “A Mover’s Guide to Standing Still” in Relationscapes (2009).
11 For an account of a woman who lost her sense of proprioception and could no longer walk, see Sacks 1998.
12 For more on rhythm, see “On the Refrain” in Deleuze and Guattari 1987.
13 Rhythm plays a direct role in activating the “walking of the walk” in those who suffer from motor activation problems such as autism. Many of the autistics discussed in this book have worked with rhythm therapy to not only activate their movement or increase its flow but also to enable and facilitate speech and writing. A key technique used in occupational therapy consists in drumming across the center line, creating a three-part rhythm (the ideal seems to be to work with a syncopated rhythm, 1–2 and, 1–2 and). The following video shows Temple Grandin experimenting with this technique: see http://www.youtube
.com/watch?v=2KaKMxojU60. For more information, see Suzanne Oliver at Neurologic Music Therapy, Services of Arizona, http://www.nmtsa.org/.
Another key aspect to rhythm is breath—and Forsythe’s sounding can be seen as one way of foregrounding the rhythm of breath in the moving. In subse- quent chapters, I will sometimes bring up DJ Savarese’s observation that neuro- typicals are “easy-breathers.” In a recent conversation (Boston, July 2011) about anxiety and movement, DJ typed, “Anxiety is not breathing movement.” For DJ, as for many on the autistic spectrum who suffer from the overlap of motor dif- ficulty and acute anxiety, it can be very challenging to create a rhythm in the breathing (it should be said that the overflow of so-called neurotypicals in yoga classes, most of which explicitly focus on breath, gives us reason to believe that DJ might not be quite right that neurotypicals are in fact naturally “easy- breathers”).
14 In ballet “épaulement” is defined as the use of the head to complete the line of the body during a movement. Generally, the head inclines toward whichever foot is in front.
15 I discuss the interval in more detail in “Incipient Action” in Relationscapes (2009).