Five. Choreography as Mobile Architecture
The epigraph for this chapter is from Massumi, forthcoming.
1 William Forsythe, Norah Zuniga Shaw, and Maria Palazzi, “Introduction to Syn- chronous Objects,” http://synchronousobjects.osu.edu/.
2 William Forsythe and Norah Zuniga Shaw, “Introduction: The Dance,” http:// synchronousobjects.osu.edu/.
3 Norah Zuniga Shaw, “Introduction: The Data,” http://synchronousobjects.osu
.edu/.
4 Synchronous Objects is a substrate of the wider Motion Bank project initiated by William Forsythe, as the first instance of Motion Bank, and as an initiatory collective project between dancers, architects, mathematicians, computer scien- tists, philosophers, designers and choreographers. I felt the platform as a whole reached its highest potential when exhibited by Norah Zuniga Shaw as a partici- patory installation (isEa 2010, Germany). In this context, participants could watch “The Dance,” compose with a counterpoint tool (a large movement-based proposition set up as a participatory installation), familiarize themselves with the complexity of the data stream created by the Motion Bank project, all the while interacting with one another. This, it seems to me, best created the condi- tions for the collective engagement with choreographic thought that is the man- date of the project: to rethink what else choreography can look like.
5 Maria  Palazzi,  “Introduction:  The  Objects,”  http://synchronousobjects.osu
.edu/.
6 William Forsythe, “Improvisation Technologies” (Berlin: Hatje Cantz Pub- lishers, 2000), cD-roM.
7 William Forsythe, from Forsythe Company rehearsal, November 14, 2010.
8 Jill  Johnson,  http://synchronousobjects.osu.edu/content.html#/cueAnnotations.
9 There are three kinds of landing sites (each of them interweaving) outlined in Arakawa and Gins 2002. The landing site described here would fall most closely into the realm of the “imaging landing site”—there are also “perceptual landing sites” and “dimensionalizing landing sites.”
10 William Forsythe and Norah Zuniga Shaw describe alignment this way: “Essen- tial to the counterpoint of the dance is a system of relationships that the com- pany refers to as alignments. Alignments are short instances of synchroniza- tion between dancers in which their actions share some, but not necessarily all, attributes. Manifested as analogous shapes, related timings, or corresponding directional flows, alignments occur in every moment of the dance and are con- stantly shifting throughout the group. . . . Other words the company uses to de- scribe this phenomenon include hook-ups, agreements and isometries. Within the thousands of alignments in the choreography, approximately 200 can be understood as a subset called sync-ups. These are moments in the choreography when a dancer’s task is to briefly join with another individual or group” (Forsythe and Shaw, “Introduction: The Dance,” http://synchronousobjects.osu.edu/).
11 This collective experience occurs not only in so-called participatory installations. It has nothing to do with an object per se or a genre of art. I discuss this more fully in chapter 6.
12 A video of the event can be found at http://www.erinmovement.com.
13 These sculptures are made of different gauges of fencing metal and fabric. Pic- tures can be found at http://www.erinmovement.com.
14 This is part of the proposition for the final iteration of Folds to Infinity titled Stitch- ing Time—A Collective Fashioning (June–September 2012, Sydney Biennale).