1 This movement experiment opened a one-day workshop I led at Critical Path in Sydney, Australia (September 16, 2009) on the topic of distributed relational movement. I would like to thank the participants of the workshop, whose open exploration of the workshop experiments allowed me to conceive of the con- cepts foregrounded here. Participants were Debra Batton, Lone Bertelsen, Haya Cohen, Atlanta Eke, Paul Gazzola, Petra Gemeinboeck, Diana Hani, Baki Koca- balli, Christiane Lo, Pauline Manley, Brian Massumi, Jodie McNeilly, Andrew Murphie, Banu Pekol, Gretel Taylor, Jade Tyas Tunggal, Beth Weinstein, and Danielle Wilde.
2 I explore this question of the between-two in my work on tango in “Negotiating Influence” in Politics of Touch (2007). When relational movement takes over in the context of a milonga in Argentine tango, the experience is that the floor-craft seems to move with the couples dancing in an elasticity of relation that reso- nates across bodies. You no longer dance between two: the mobility of the milieu dances you.
3 William Forsythe, from Forsythe Company rehearsal, Frankfurt, November 10, 2010.
4 C. S. Peirce—who can be firmly situated in the philosophical lineage fore- grounded here—has a similar concept of personing: “The consciousness of a general idea has a certain ‘unity of ego’ in it, which is identical when it passes from one mind to another. It is, therefore quite analogous to a person; and in- deed, a person is only a particular kind of general idea” (1992, 350).
5 For more on the concept of terminus, see William James (1912). He writes: “the percept’s existence as the terminus of the chain of intermediaries creates the func- tion. Whatever terminates that chain was, because it now proves itself to be, what the concept ‘had in mind’” (31).
6 See Arakawa and Gins’ Making Dying Illegal (2007). For descriptions of their archi- tectural work, see also “For Sale: Eternal Life in the Hamptons,” Hooked on Houses, http://hookedonhouses.net/2011/02/22/for-sale-eternal-life-in-the-hamptons/; and Fred Bernstein, “A House Not for Mere Mortals,” New York Times, April 3, 2008,       http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/03/garden/03destiny.html.