eighT. The Shape of Enthusiasm
All reproductions of the images in this chapter are thanks to Editions l’Arach- néen, which owns the copyright for all of Fernand Deligny’s maps. They have generously ceded copyright for the use of the images throughout, very much in the spirit of Deligny’s work.
The poem by Jim Sinclair (1993) that opens this chapter was originally pub- lished as “Our Voice” in the newsletter for Autism Network International (now offline). It was reproduced and posted by Amanda Baggs, August 18, 2010, http:// ballastexistenz.wordpress.com/.
1 Amanda Baggs (2010a) talks of thought as a perceptual field of prearticulation that existis in the between of words. Roy Bedward describes it like this: “I have vision that sees beyond the immediate context and hearing that hears more than just sounds. It is difficult to describe but I can tell you that there is so much more to the universe than you will ever know by just using narrow vision and limited hearing. When you open your senses to all that exists more comes to you than you can ever imagine” (“Communication Makes or Breaks a Life: This Boy’s Life-Saving Typing,” May 2008, http://artfuladventures.typepad.com/artful_ad ventures/meet-roy-bedward.html).
2 Guattari gets this concept from Jean Oury, who is known to have said that nor- mopathy is the most widespread and most incurable disease.
3 For more on the question of continuities between autism (neurodiversity) and the neurotypical, especially in the context of perception and the parsing out of experience, see “Coming Alive in a World of Texture,” in Thought in the Act (Manning and Massumi, forthcoming).
4 Bedward, “Communication Makes or Breaks a Life.”
5 While at La Borde working with Jean Oury and Félix Guattari in 1966, a young autistic by the name of Jean-Marie [Janmari] is entrusted to Deligny by the child’s mother. An immediate bond ensues, and Deligny begins to conceive of a project of taking autistics out of the institutional frameworks of psychiatry and psycho- analysis. He commits his life to this project, summing up his commitment in one sentence: “to live in the presence of Janmari” (Toledo 2007, 641). On July 14, 1967, Deligny leaves La Borde with Janmari and a few others to move to Gourgas, a large house in ruins bought by Felix Guattari. Guattari’s project was originally to make of Gourgas a meeting-place for militants, intellectuals, artists, and workers, and to hand over the task of organizing it to Deligny (Toledo 2007, 641). Deligny shied away from this task, preferring to dedicate himself to his own developing project of facilitating an environment for what we would today call neurodiversity.
6 The first children were sent by Françoise Dolto, Maud Mannoni, and Emile Mon- nerot. Since the psychiatric institutions that housed the children closed during the summer vacation, the children could be sent to the Cevennes to Deligny (Toledo 2007, 673).
7 Jean Oury remembers Deligny’s frustrations with the language of psychoanaly- sis while still at La Borde, particularly in any encounter where patients’ dossiers were foregrounded. For Deligny, what seemed to be most vital was the lived ex- perience of coexistence, not how the patient had been evaluated in an institu- tional framework: “What matters, he would say, is the project. We could care less about thought” (Oury qtd. in Toledo 2007, 638).
8 “About the tracings—which he calls act-signs—we do not always know whether they concern the adults or the children. The border is mobile” (Toledo 2007, 644). Tracings developed as a way for the caretakers or accompaniers to be in conversation with the autistics, not for the autistics to represent their move- ments to them. And yet, the tracings are absolutely a collaborative enterprise, a drawing-with of emergent spacetimes of recomposition. The traces, and espe- cially what Deligny calls the “lines of drift” (lignes d’erres), allow the mobile terri- tory to “become seen,” mapping into it its collective resonance.
9 The tracings are a way of learning not to speak “about” autistics in their pres- ence as though they had no language or as though their experience didn’t count. This would only feed the already ingrained institutional habits Deligny wanted to usurp. They were a way to make experience collective, to create a movement-with that could lead the group to see anew. Sandra Alvarez de Toledo speaks of “ma- chines for seeing,” a modality of seeing that does not return to the eyes them- selves [le regard ] or language. The tracings “made seen the forms of the human absent from the image of man” (Toledo 2007, 799). Isaac Joseph writes, “The maps [tracings] were an attenuated and aestheticized echo of the work in the presence of the children,” a project to teach the adults how to see the autistics’ lines of drift, “how to see a common territory without subject or language, to see oneself within it (s’Y voir), despite themselves” (qtd. in Toledo 2007, 684).
10 In Deleuze and Guattari’s A Thousand Plateaus, Brian Massumi translates “lignes d’erre” as “lines of drift.” In Dialogues, translated the same year by Hugh Tomlin- son and Barbara Habberjam, it is translated as “lines of wandering.” I’ve retrans- lated them here as “lines of drift” to keep the text consistent. Though “erre” does have the sense of wandering, I like the sense of drift as not being necessarily acti- vated by the human but also in the environment, in a movement-with of emer- gent spacetimes.
11 In “What Children Say,” Deleuze writes: “The trajectory merges not only with the subjectivity of those who travel through a milieu, but also with the subjectivity of the milieu itself, insofar as it is reflected in this who travel through it. The map expresses the identity of the journey and what one journeys through. It merges with its object, when the object itself is movement. Nothing is more instructive than
the paths of autistic children, such as those whose maps Deligny has revealed and superimposed, with their customary lines, wandering lines [lines of drift], loops, corrections, and turnings back—all their singularities. . . . A cartographic conception is very distinct from the archeological conception of psychoanaly- sis. The latter establishes a profound link between the unconscious and mem- ory: it is a memorial, commemorative, or monumental conception that pertains to persons or objects, the milieus being nothing more than terrains capable of conserving, identifying, or authenticating them. From such a point of view, the superposition of layers is necessarily traversed by a shaft that goes from top to bottom, and it is always a question of penetration. Maps, on the contrary, are superimposed in such a way that each map finds itself modified in the following map, rather than finding its origin in the preceding one: from one map to the next, it is not a matter of searching for an origin, but of evaluating displacements. Every map is a redistribution of impasses and breakthroughs, of thresholds and enclosures, which necessarily go from bottom to top” (1997, 61–64; my empha- sis).
12 The quotations from Anne Querrien and Beatrice Han that reference Deligny are for the most part spoken in their own words, not those of Deligny. But they are a poetic paraphrasing of his practice, and insofar as they are written as a tribute to his work, they are, in a sense, the tracings of his thoughts.
13 Deligny’s poetic texts are never “about” the tracings. They take place in a beside that is, in a sense, between the words of the moving drifts. These are tentative words, themselves drifting in a togetherness that creates a complicity between the tracings and the words. This complicity draws out confluences but never seeks to explain or to organize. They orient in the same way the tracings orient. As Toledo writes, “Deligny’s legends (his texts) do not clarify the maps; they in- tensify their ambiguities” (2007, 800).
14 Deligny’s concept of “camérer” (to camera) is very interesting in this context. Deligny suggests that we have not yet moved into the time of the image, where the image exceeds its representation, exceeds language. “No matter what they say,” he writes, “ours is not the time of the image” (Deligny 1990). See also De- ligny’s 1971 film Le moindre geste.
15 Deligny makes much of Janmari’s open circles. He calls them “cernes d’erre,” re- ferring to the growth-line of the tree and to the circling that is not quite a circle, a Nietzschean circling of eternal return perhaps, linking this spiral-circling to the idea of the common or what I am calling the commoning.
16 Australian Aboriginal art and, in particular, the works of Clifford Possum (“The Map Series”) challenge Euclidean mappings, foregrounding something quite similar to Deligny’s lines of drift. For a more sustained engagement with Pos- sum’s work with respect to different kinds of mapping practices, see Bardon and Bardon 2004; Glowczewski 1989; Johnson 2003; Muecke, Benterrak, and Roe 1984; Morphy 1998; and Myers 2002. I have also written about these issues
in “Relationscapes: How Contemporary Aboriginal Art Moves Beyond the Map” in Relationscapes (2009).
17 In Difference and Repetition, Deleuze (1994, 285) explores the idea of the “now here” as an inversion of Samuel Butler’s Erewhon.