coda. Another Regard
The epigraph for this chapter is from Prince 2004.
1 This definition was coined by Norah Zuniga Shaw with William Forsythe for the Synchronous Objects website, http://www.synchronousobjects.org.
2 William Forsythe, from Forsythe Company rehearsal, Frankfurt, November 2010.
3 Ibid.
4 In Science and the Modern World, Whitehead writes: “To say that a bit of matter has simple location means that, in expressing its spatio-temporal relations, it is adequate to state that it is where it is, in a definite finite region of space, and throughout a definite finite duration of time, apart from any essential reference of the relations of that bit of matter to other regions of space and to other dura- tions of time” (1925, 58).
5 One response might be: “but these asymmetrical relations are so dominant that to sidestep them is to not even begin to address the place from whence such an investigation can begin!” A film like Project Nim (James Marsh, 2011) makes this abundantly clear. It seems to me that this issue is nonetheless best returned to through other means than those of identity politics. Movements are restricted in an infinity of ways, and while the fence that separates Kanzi and Prince is a blatant case of the imposition of controls on animals, the more interesting question is how speciations open the way for a different ecology of freedom of movement that affects the human constellation as well, albeit in different ways. Once the question of speciation has unfolded and the counterpoint has been ex- plored, questions of power (and the fact, for instance, that there are asymmet- rical notions of freedom that frame the event) become all the more complex. In other words, to not settle the distinction in a vocabulary based only on species might allow us to understand better the complexities—the ecologies—through which to better take care of notions such as freedom of movement, leading, per- haps, to a stronger sense of how an ecology of practices might lead to different practices of animal internment.
6 In Semblance and Event, Brian Massumi develops a concept of semblance con- nected to that of “likeness” as I explore it here. He writes, “The ‘likeness’ of things is a qualitative fringe, or aura to use a totally unpopular word, that be- tokens a moreness to life” (2011b, 44).
7 Deleuze and Guattari write: “Once again, we turn to children. Note how they talk about animals, and are moved by them. They make a list of affects. Little Hans’s
horse is not representative but affective. It is not a member of a species but an element or individual in a machinic assemblage: draft horse-omnibus-street. It is defined by a list of active and passive affects in the context of the individu- ated assemblage it is part of: having eyes blocked by blinders, having a bit and a bridle, being proud, having a big peepee-maker, pulling heavy loads, being whipped, falling, making a din with its legs, biting, etc. These affects circulate and are transformed within the assemblage: what a horse ‘can do’ ” (1987, 257).
8 There is a large literature on “gender dysphoria” and autism. This literature tends to take gender identity as a given, ignoring the rich literature by autistics that describes their own experience of gender and the difficulty of fitting into pre- exsiting categories. In Women from Another Planet—Our Lives in the Universe of Autism Miller writes: “For some of us here, our lives, outlook, and behavior don’t have much of a sense of gender at all. I myself live a somewhat femme life but it feels in some sense detachable, like a costume. I was an androgynous kid and most clearly perceive the world in a non-gendered way” (2003, 38). See Miller 2003 for a variety of perspectives on gender and engendering.
9 The French “jouée” is translated to “acted” in the English. See Bergson 1941 (181).
10 In Whitehead, mentality and appetition are two different concepts, though aligned. He writes: “In physical experience, the forms are the defining factors: in mental experience the forms connect the immediate occasions with occasions which lie beyond. The connection of immediate fact with the future resides in its appetitions” (1929, 32). I reduce the concept here to the force of appetition simply to foreground how mentality is not of the mind but of the “hunger” of the process.
11 Jim Sinclair writes: “In my own experience, sensory sensitivities can be painful and can prevent enjoyment of some aspects of normal social involvement—but I gain so much beauty and meaning from the way my senses work! My hearing is oversensitive and this is bothersome at times, but I wouldn’t change it because I don’t want to lose the colors of voices and the tactility of music. My vision is not just oversensitive but is scrambled and difficult to use. I would be cautiously interested in exploring therapies to enable me to have more functional use of my vision. The reason for caution was illustrated a couple of years ago when I tried wearing Irlen lenses. After an adjustment period, I found that the tinted lenses did indeed make certain utilitarian visual tasks easier—but they also messed up my hearing. I couldn’t see sounds anymore. I came up with the compromise solution of getting the tinted lenses put in flip-up frames, so I could have them flipped down when I needed efficient vision to do mundane things, and flip them up out of the way when I wanted to focus on something personally meaningful without being distracted. This still seems to me like it would be the best solu- tion, but unfortunately the flip-up frames are not sturdy enough to withstand being used by a person with my motor planning problems. After the fourth or
fifth time that I broke them, I decided it wasn’t worth the hassle anymore. For me, it is more adaptive to find ways to compensate for my poor visual process- ing than to sacrifice meaning in perception by wearing the lenses all the time” (http://www.jimsinclair.org/).
12 Anne Corwin, http://www.existenceiswonderful.com/.