“A thousand smiles, a thousand getting-out-of-chairs, a thousand varia- tions of performance of any and all behaviours.” With these words, tinged with wonder at the richness of the everyday, Daniel Stern underscores the multiplicity of every single act composing our lives (Stern 1985, 56; cited in chapter 1 below). Always More Than One, as the title conveys, is dedicated to that wonder: of the ever-varying manyness of all that comes as one.
Any sense of contradiction this wording may be taken to imply is quickly sidelined by observing with A. N. Whitehead, another key theoretical re- source for the book, that as an “ultimate notion” for process oriented phi- losophy “the term ‘one’ does not stand for the ‘integral number one.’”
It stands for the general idea underlying alike the indefinite article “a” or “an,” and the definite article “the,” and the demonstratives “this” or “that,” and the relatives “which or what or how.” It stands for the singularity of an event. The term “many” presupposes the term “one,” and the term “one” presupposes the term “many.” (1978, 21)
In Always More Than One, Erin Manning starts from the reciprocal pre- supposition of the one and the many. This is what she means when she says, echoing Gilles Deleuze, that she begins in the middle. She does not pause to worry over contradiction. She takes this reciprocal presupposi- tion as a launching pad and dives right in. She does this by approaching the problem from the outset as a question of composition. That what comes as one comes a many loses any sense of a sterile conundrum when it is taken
in this matter-of-fact way: as a coming-together (com-position). A many enter in one coming-together. And comings-together come in many varia- tions on each theme. When it comes to the one and the many, the wonder should attach more to this immediate implication of serial iteration than to any supposed contradiction. No sooner do we dive into composition than composition launches itself into a process of iteration offering a bounty of variations, thousands and thousands, on any and all behaviors or events. Add the notion that the iteration of the process can be inflected, and com- position finds the double connotation it has in everyday language: not just a coming-together, but a one (-many) bountifully susceptible to technique.
Manning’s diving in, past contradiction straight to composition and with process to technique, gives the writing in Always More Than One a re- markable velocity. It speeds past preliminary considerations as to the nature of the one that many may expect. The most available readymade categories for the one are the subject, the object, and the totality. They make unpro- pitious starting points. Given the habitual ways we have of speaking and thinking about these categories, to start with them would be to begin with the assumption that the term “one” did in fact stand for the integral num- ber one, in lonely opposition to what counts as many. For the unity of the one not to stand alone, it would have to be opened up to reveal a hidden multiplicity. But the multiplicity, Whitehead insists, isn’t hidden. It comes immediately and manifestly with every one. There are significant disadvan- tages to taking the subject or object as the starting point even if it is only in order to deconstruct or decenter their counting only for one. The disadvan- tage is that it activates, as an inaugural gesture, the very habits of thought it is designed to undermine. Once activated, they are difficult, if not impos- sible, to shake off.
The alternative adopted by Manning is neither to deconstruct nor de- center, but to defer. The speed with which she launches into process is de- signed to hold at bay the issue of the status of the subject and the object until concepts for the reciprocal presupposition of the one and the many are sufficiently in place for subject and object to be grasped as a function of process rather than the reverse: process falling under the province of sub- jects and objects. The concept charged with holding the status of the sub- ject and object in processual suspense is individuation, adapted from Gilbert Simondon. Simondon’s premise is simple: individuals, whether subjects or objects according to the traditional categories, come to be. They are results of an ontogenetic process: they are products.