x PrEluDE
It would seem obvious that a process is different in principle from its products, and that this difference calls for concepts tailored specifically to it. One of the most evident ways a process differs from its products is in the span of its activity. A process brings together the factors that go into bringing about a result by drawing on a different, always wider, field of ac- tivity than the product once arisen will entertain. Processually speaking, a making is always bigger than the made. The making includes, in germ, the form of what will come to be, as well as the functions its being, once arisen, will afford. In addition, it includes the under-formation and the clinching- into-operation of the functions-to-come. Formation is more inclusive than form-and-function. The span of a becoming is broader than a being. An individuation is more encompassing than an individual. To understand indi- viduation, this more-than of becoming can never be lost from sight. How- ever obvious it is that a process is different in principle from its products and deserves accordingly different concepts, this is rarely taken to heart. If the concepts of subject and object are not deferred, their forms and func- tions backcast on process, overshadowing the conceptual complexion of the under-formation. This is what Deleuze and Deleuze and Guattari ana- lyze as the “transcendental error” of “stenciling” (décalquer, trace) the em- pirical characteristics of constituted being onto the formative process of its constitution. Manning’s foregrounding of the notion of individuation is a way of advancing the account of the reciprocal presupposition of the one and the many in a way that avoids this transcendental error, never losing sight of the ontogenetic differing of process from its products, of constitu- tion from the constituted.
The error of understanding the constitutive process of individuation in the image of its constituted product is actively maintained by the accumu- lated cultural and philosophical connotations of the term “individual.” Its avoidance requires follow-up and follow-through. Manning will accord- ingly supplement the Simondonian concept of individuation with terms of her own. One is fielding. When an individual comes to stand out as one from a broader field of activity from which it arises, we can say that it has been formatively fielded. The error of “stenciling” over this broader field of activity is called “transcendental” because what it papers over is precisely that. The formative field is transcendental in the sense that it does not co- incide with the being whose becoming it harbors. It outspans it, overspills its limits, extends “beyond” it. It is not beyond in the sense of “outside” and radically “other,” or alternatively in the sense of a deeper inside (a radically