Brian MassuMi xi
intimate other). Either option would make it “transcendent” as opposed to transcendental. The difference is that the notion of the transcendent in- cludes the idea of an a priori totality. Totality was the third figure of the one in need of deferral. Despite the abstractness of the notion of totality, its deferral is the one that comes most easily. The fact that process is always moving on to a further iteration is itself a deferral. Process is process be- cause it is forever deferring its own completion in the dynamic form of more becoming. Process is always in the process of exceeding itself in its own carrying forward. This makes it transcendental not only in relation to its determinate products, but in relation to itself. It is always moving into its own beyond. Process is the transcendental in person. Or, more precisely, in movement. It is what moves across iterations of being, across the subjects and objects that come to be through its movement (and are left in its wake). If process “as a whole” can be characterized, it is as a constitutively open totality: an everything-always-moving-on that wraps itself up into being each of its iterations as it unrolls itself forward through them. Its openness cannot be assigned to an inside or an outside, coming as it does as an always moving-across of becoming. The best word for it is “immanent.” The tran- scendental field of individuation is immanent not to a subject (Kant, phe- nomenology) but to its own phasing into and out of being, as becoming.
It is nothing less than the world’s “worlding,” its fullness of oneness and manyness, as William James would say, in respects that iteratively vary.
Another word Manning uses for the transcendental field is milieu. The word, often qualified by “associated,” is a favorite of both Simondon and Deleuze and Guattari for its double entendre in French. In French milieu means both “middle” and “surroundings.” To put the two meanings together without falling back into an outside/inside division that calls for a subject or object to found or regulate it, you have to conceive of a middle that wraps around, to self-surround, as it phases onward in the direction of the “more” of its formative openness. In a word, you have to give the pre- cept of beginning in the middle a topological twist. All of the concepts that are mobilized to work with individuation, and to work it through, will then have to similarly twist. In Always More Than One the transcendental field of individuation is the philosophical planet in the vicinity of which concepts bend like passing light, creating a refractive pattern that alters the spec- trum of even the most familiar terms. No term passes unswerved. But once swerved from their habitual path, any term is free to return, philosophically reoriented, up to and including the strategically deferred subject and object
(which return in a splendor of Whiteheadian colors diffused throughout this book).
It is the work of the first chapter to initiate the reader to the reorientation of individuation’s swerve, taking off from Daniel Stern’s rethinking of the psychological self and psychoanalytic subject. The writing in this chapter is already at speed, launching into the invention of new concepts specifically tailored to the reciprocal presupposition of the one and the many in forma- tive belonging to a shared process of becoming, and plotting the conven- tional notions with which we are in the habit of thinking into their twisting vicinity. The velocity of the writing and the sheer number of new concepts set in motion may prove at times disorienting for the reader, as a result of swerve fatigue. Received assumptions or previously arrived at conclusions the reader inevitably brings to the reading, concerning the individual, in- sides/outsides, and subjects/objects, are sure to return at moments of con- scious or unconscious need for conceptual repose. These moments are part of the process. If they are selectively focused on, however, they will place the reader at a remove from the text, defaulting them, for example, to a posture of critique. At these moments the movement of the text continues while the reader holds to position. This can lead to a disconnect. Just as Manning her- self takes the plunge, so too must the reader be prepared to replunge into the current of the writing. The concern of the book is the more-than of any objective or subjective resting place of process that counts as one. It is only fitting that the writing itself perform a more-than of any one concept upon which the reader’s attention might arrest. Like the process it follows, the writing folds into and out of its own iterations. Conceptual variations un- fold from each other to stand out for themselves, then fold back together to express their belonging to the same fielding of thought. This gives a rhythm to the writing as an ongoing process of the individuation of a movement of thought. There are refrains and motifs designed to slip a reader who falls out of step back into the rhythm.
The processual nature of the writing as it performs the more-than of any one concept gives it a beauty approaching poetry. But it is not poetry, it is philosophy, “nothing but philosophy,” as Deleuze once said of his own writing, alone and with Guattari. The difference is that in philosophical writing, concepts, however many there are and however fast they turn over on each other, however complex the rhythm of their movement, do crest into an individuation where they are fully determined and rigorously stand out in their individuality from the field of their emergence. In a sense, this
is true of all philosophical writing. What distinguishes process-oriented philosophical writing such as Manning’s from other kinds is that the indi- viduation of the determinate concepts crests into their precision like a wave on a sea of thought. They do not plinth themselves into solitary prominence on a supporting structure of solidly planted first premises. Rather, they rise from a swell of their formative conceptual field, and fold back. They are rigorously composed in the flow of liquid writing, to which they return to recompose, in a continuing tide of conceptual invention. Like poetry, this takes utmost technique, but to different ends. A poem is fully and finally composed. It is an expressive end in itself. It asks to be reread, but not to be rewritten. Processual philosophical writing is also expressive, and also in- vites rereading. It is fully composed as well, but without the standing claim to finality, instead with a horizontal openness of process that extends an invitation to further. It would like nothing more than for its concepts and their momentum to forward into a different writing process, toward other individuations of thought beyond itself, in new iterations and variations, in rewriting upon writing, in waves of thought, each “one” in company of an iterative “many,” in a kind of processual quilting of thinking-with. This is philosophy practiced as a concept-creative endeavor that performs in writing the larger process it concerns. It gives the gift of a movement of thought, again as Deleuze and Guattari would say, to a “people to come.” It sets going a concept-creative momentum for a coming thought community. A reader bent on holding to position, or to standing rigid in critical remove, will risk missing the boat. Best to read as Bertrand Russell advises:
In studying a philosopher, the right attitude is neither reverence nor con- tempt, but first a kind of hypothetical sympathy, until it is possible to know what it feels like to believe in his theories, and only then a revival of the critical attitude, which should resemble, as far as possible, the state of mind of a person abandoning opinions which he has hitherto held. (1996, 47)
Always More Than One, as an endeavor in creative philosophy, dedicates itself to the invention of new concepts. This is just the half of it. What a reader who enters the text in an attitude of hypothetical sympathy will im- mediately understand is that in order to dedicate itself to the invention of new concepts, it must compose new kinds of concepts. This is signalled in the opening quote from Whitehead on the reciprocal presupposition of the one and the many.
Whitehead says that the process-oriented idea of the one is not the inte- gral number one but a “general idea” that “stands for the singularity of an event.” A general idea standing for a singularity? Again, Whitehead is not being contradictory. He is pointing us in new conceptual directions. What Whitehead means by “general idea” is not what traditionally goes by that name. A general idea in the normal sense is an empty category that sub- sumes a set of particulars. It is an abstract schema used as a standard for judging the identity of particulars and for assigning them membership in a predefined class. The general idea is a lofty “The” subsuming the ground level “a” of each particular that fulfills the schema. Whitehead turns this tra- ditional logic on its head by pointedly putting the “the” and “a” on the same level. The general idea, he says, “underlies them both alike.” It straddles the definite and the indefinite articles. Even more, it takes into its fold de- monstratives like “this” or “that” and the relatives “which” or “what” or “how.” Whitehead’s general idea stretches all the way from “the” to “how.” In other words, it is a span of modal variation, a range of kinds or degrees of definiteness inflected by differences in manner (“how”). Although it is all about definiteness, it is not about mutual exclusion. Without the hierarchy of the “the” over the “a,” there is no a priori way of ensuring noncontradic- tion. This is a logic of mutual inclusion: a logic for the many’s “underlying” belonging-together. To mark the difference between this kind of “general idea” and the traditional kind, a change of name would help. Call it, for ex- ample, the “generic.” In what way is the logic of the generic immediately a logic of singularity? In what way is the genericness and singularity of an event so intimately entwined that it does not even occur to Whitehead in this passage to comment on the transition from one term to the other?
Daniel Stern shares this logic, and a comment of his can help explain what is at stake. What is at stake for Whitehead is the very nature of philo- sophical thinking. For Stern, it’s the richness of everyday experience. For Manning it is both: philosophy, nothing but philosophy, toward the enrich- ment of life.
“When you suck your finger,” Stern observes, “your finger gets sucked— and not just generally sucked” (1985, 80). There is no “the” finger-sucking that isn’t inflected by the “how” of “a” sucking. “Which”? “This” one or “that.” And that’s the “what” of it. “Not generally sucked”: a thousand- suckings-of-fingers. No one suck. Where there is one, there are more to come. A one after another.
The point is a serious one, even for finger-weaned adults. It is that events
come in populations, and the populating takes the form of a serial iteration. From the point of view of their populating multiplicity, events are generic. But each event is utterly singular. “Each one presents a different vitality af- fect” (Stern 1985, 56). In other words, there is a life-feeling, a quality of life, upon which each iteration is a unique variation. The uniqueness of the event is not in spite of its belonging to the generic population. It is at least in part because of it. A first suck is a revelation. A fifth suck is a comfort. Suck six is its own satisfying variation on comfort. Depending on exactly how each event transpires and what else is present that may inflect it (a glance at a care- giver’s face, the soft brush of a blanket on the cheek), each sucking in the series will take on its own unique vitality affect. It is this vitality affect that makes “the” event definitively what it will have been. In other words, the definition of the event includes as determining factors both its generic popu- lousness and the irreducible uniqueness that comes  with  the  contingent “what elses” of its occurrence. The generic populousness is a multiplicity of belonging not to a class, but to an event-series.
Across the series run any number of variations on the theme. The “what elses” are accidents of place and time. This means that in this processual logic the definition of an event mutually, necessarily, includes as codeter- mining factors what would in the traditional logic be judgmentally sepa- rated out from each other as essential properties and accidental qualities. It replaces this dichotomy with a distinction between a continuing varia- tion (seriation) and its dosing with contingency (accident; the unforesee- able intervening variable). This is not a dichotomy, it’s a co-implication: the iterative variation and the variable intervention of contingency are codeter- mining. Neither could make sense—or make vitality affect—without the other. Even more radically, time (serial order, but also in this case things like time of day and time between iterations) and place (the matrix of co- presence ensuring that any number of “what elses” will have the opportu- nity to leave their contingent trace) cannot be abstracted away. The singu- larity of the event is not only logically, but genetically, inseparable from its genericness. They are “one”: the singular-generic. As a “general idea,” the singular-generic includes spatial and temporal coordinates, working together, to bring seriation and contingency together into the unfolding of the event. “The” event cannot be thought apart from the co-implication of space and time: spacetime. A philosophy of experience, then, has to do with singular-generic spacetimes of experience, in relation to which the most relevant questions are not “what” but “what else” brought together “how.”
These are some of the signature concepts of Manning’s original take on process philosophy, as it develops toward Always More Than One from the closely allied earlier volumes, Politics of Touch (2007) and Relationscapes (2009). The qualitative difference of the “how” of an event. The continuum of varia- tion running across iterations of experience. The processual openness of the “what else.” The question of composition of the manner in which codeter- mining factors are brought together toward a unique mutual inclusion in the event defining the newness of a next iteration: the question of creativity. The impossibility of thinking creativity without factoring in proliferating series of life-forming events and their corresponding spacetimes of experi- ence.
Experience: it is significant that Stern underlines that each of the “thou- sand variations” on a generic life-event carries a different affect, and that he qualifies the affect as a “vitality” affect. But we must be careful here. The words “experience” and “affect” can easily lead back to the concep- tual repose of the subject and interiority. This would be to stencil over the singular-generic with the traditional categorical logic again. Stern is clear: none of the thousand-gettings-out-of-chairs of his first example are sub- sumable under “a specific category of affect” to which an internal state of a subject would correspond (1985, 56). A vitality affect is not a category of affect, and it is not personal. It’s a uniquely generic life-feeling of activity. Each getting-out-of-a-chair and each sucking-of-a-finger comes with “a burst of determination” (Stern 1985, 56). They are incidents of determina- tion; determining occurrences. However small and everyday they may be, in their determination they are still life-defining events. The feeling they come with defines what life has been like. This feeling of vitality, or vitality affect, is not in the subject, and is not just personal (unless accidents and popula- tions can be considered personal). It is in and of the world. It is in and of the world’s serial ongoing and the contingent surprises met along the way. It is in the way in which the ongoing and the surprise come punctually together to determine a burst of life. Process philosophy is how we burst with life, in and of the world. It’s about our worlding. How the world populates us, and we the world, in a reciprocal presupposition of oneness and manyness determining a richness reaching all the way down to the most furtive suck of the finger and rising all the way back up from there to tinge the most ge- neric and regularized events with a feeling of singularity.
Manning’s word for the singular-generic burstability of life a-worlding across the scales is “a” life (a term adopted from Deleuze). “A” life does not
exclude the “this” and the “that” and the “which” and the “what” and the “how.” It doesn’t even exclude the “the.” Emphasizing the “a” is a way of saying that the “the” is not the categorical “The” but the potential for defi- niteness that comes of the processual mutual inclusion of the definite with the indefinite article, the demonstrative, and the relative.
Manning’s word for the variation across iterations of singular events ge- nerically belonging to the same populating series is speciation. It is as crucial for an understanding of Always More Than One to avoid stenciling species back into a categorical concept as it is to avoid committing this transcendental error with regard to affect. A species is not a set of beings having certain properties generally defining them as members of the same class. A species for Manning, as her term (speciation) implies, is a species of event. A specia- tion occurs when two or more constituted individuals come back together singular-generically in a way that produces a new vitality affect. The de- fining trait of the speciation is the uniqueness of the vitality affect arising from the burst of determination of such a coming-together. This is not a property of either of the individuals coming together. It comes between them. It is in the event of their coming-together, at the crossroads where a line of continual variation meets the unforeseeable variable of a what-else. In the thousand-sittings-in-chairs, backside and cushion speciate. In the thousand-suckings-of-a-finger, mouth and finger speciate. The species, in each case, is the vitality affect (comforting). The speciation is the difference each one of the thousands brings to the vitality affect.
Speciation rises up in scale to take on broader significance at levels we would term macropolitical, in the bursts of determination of the kind, for example, with which Israelis and Palestinians come together to populate the world with events of their (anything but mutually comforting) between- ness. Even at this level, the events in question determine speciations of vitality affect that are not subsumable under any logic of mutual exclusion, in spite of the conflictual nature of the events. Not: Israeli or Palestinian. Rather: what passes between. “A” life (not excluding many deaths; mutually including the “how” they come about and the asymmetries of all kinds that come with their coming about).
What is the politics of “a” life? Chapter 3 of Always More Than One asks that question, with full cognizance of the complexity and sensitivity of re- posing the question of the political in these terms, in connection with the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The risk of reformulating the question of poli- tics in mutually inclusive terms is one that the philosophy the book de-
velops cannot avoid. It is necessarily entailed by the logic it must deploy in order for its writing to be equal to the thinking of process. The force toward mutual exclusion exerted by the traditional-logic categories with which we are accustomed to using is perhaps at its strongest in political thinking. This can even be the case in political approaches dedicated to fighting ex- clusion, to the extent that they lend themselves to the exercise of moral judgment. What form of political judgment does “a” life imply, as a func- tion of speciation, factoring in the continually varying and contingently variable “one” (-manyness) of the transcendental field of singular-generic events whose cresting from that field compose it? What might an ethics of the singular-generic involve, as against a morality of categorical judgment? For Manning, answering these questions effectively requires unstenciling the transcendental field of becoming of politics. It requires following in that field what outspans, overspills, and extends vitally-affectively beyond the backcast form of constituted groupings. It requires a thinking of group individuation, what Simondon (2005, 293–316) calls collective individuation, in terms specifically tailored to its constitutive movement. In order to accom- plish this, Manning generates another topological twist. The transcenden- tal field as earlier described as a middle that wraps around to self-surround flattens itself into a surface—a metaphysical surface doubling the surface of the screen upon which Waltz with Bashir, the film being analyzed, is pro- jected, and from which the vitality affects its movement-images produce stand out. It is essential to remember that the way in which the problem of politics is posed by the project of Always More Than One requires a metaphysi- cal response. Traditional political reasoning, and its habit of stenciling con- stituted distinctions onto the constitutive movement of their becoming, must be deferred, long enough for its categories to be refracted when they do return—as they inevitably will—through the conceptual force-field of a political metaphysics of becoming.
One thing that Manning argues is not involved from her perspective in ethical thought on the political level is the human/subjective face-to-face. She quotes Levinas’s troubled statement following the Sabra and Shatila massacre to the effect that there are some who are not eligible for the ethics of the face-to-face because they are simply “wrong.” This statement, so out of place with the tone of Levinas’s work in general, demonstrates that there is a limit to the ethics of the human face-to-face. There is a point at which it turns its back, reorienting toward a posture of moral judgment justify- ing exclusion. That limit is when the “other” is no longer greeted as other
but looms as inhuman. Manning’s reformulation of the political question is designed to disable this limit in order to preserve a political ethics of en- gagement. Her process philosophy in fact recognizes no such limit, for the simple reason that the betweenness of human being as it conceives it is not itself human. It is more than human: human plus many-one singular-generic spacetimes of experience; human plus the eventful improvisation of new and emergent vitality affects; human plus contingencies belonging to any number of categories; human plus more than currently human potential, collectively individuating. The more than human of the political and the ethical is a constant concern throughout Always More Than One. It is here that Manning’s thought reaches its most far-reaching, original, and potentially controversial extension.
The coda returns to the political and ethical question as it concerns speciation in a different connection. The context is one that might pass as more “natural” as regards the issue of the more than human of the more than one. The individuals between which the event of speciation passes are assignable as two different species in the traditional sense of the word (as categories of being defined by divergent sets of inherent properties). There is a bonobo and a human, in encounter. The danger of transcenden- tal error is extreme here, precisely because the traditional logic would seem so logically called upon for service. Manning’s account of a singular event passing between a bonobo and a human moves the discussion of the more than human onto the kind of territory normally staked out by current dis- courses of the “nonhuman.” The very term “nonhuman,” which cannot but reverberate with categorical thinking, marks the difference in approach. Manning’s approach here makes much of the fact that the coming-together between the individuals in encounter is oddly triangulated by the question of what constitutes not a human or a bonobo but, surprisingly, a gorilla. The singular-generic field that enters into the constitution is already inhab- ited by the manyness of the more than one or two. The vitality affect that eventuates is not one-or-the-other of the two, but an unexpected thirdness of both-and bursting with gorilla-like determination. This is because one- and-the-other are not subsumable under their categorical species without remainder. The bonobo is not reducible to the figure of “the” bonobo. In the constitution of his life are factors that from the traditional logic would be considered mere contingencies: domestication, an apprenticeship with language. In Kanzi’s oneness is already a unique manyness. He is a varia- tion on bonoboing. If you wanted to hold to the traditional logic, you would
have to say he was a subspecies. But even this would not be enough to grasp “what” he is. He is utterly singular-generic: “a” life serially determined by events. As is the human, Dawn Prince, on the other side of the fence. Prince in this encounter is not “the” human. She also is “a” singular-generic life. It would be reductive and insulting to specify her categorically as a “sub- species” of human: “the” autistic. She is no more “the” autistic than she is “the” human. She is “this” autistic human, only and exactly “how” she comes to that encounter: a primatologist-autist whose seriation of “a” life- making events have given her a unique talent for cofactoring with apes. No general ideas about humans and animals and interspecies relations are ade- quate to grasp the richness and inventiveness of the speciation that tran- spires between them. Two lives come into encounter across the species bar- rier of the fence in a zoo, bringing into play the thirdness of a joint event of speciation: “a” life co-composing. Assessing the politics and ethics of such encounters from a processual perspective respectful of how both par- ticipants and their coming-together burst with life-determination requires a retooling of the concepts with which we think the “nonhuman” and the variation of the human, and these in the same event: a “more than human” logic of life-making events, immanent to their occurring.
Significant portions of Always More Than One concern autism, following on from the final chapter of Relationscapes. To understand the role of the autistic, and the centrality of autism to the philosophy of the book, it is necessary once again to hold categorical judgment at bay. It must be borne in mind that in none of the sections in which it is a question of autism (chapters 1, 7, and 8 and interludes 4 and 5, in addition to the coda) is there a “the” autist. There is the autistic/writer, the autistic/drawer, the autis- tic/videographer, the autistic/neurodiversity activist, the autistic/facilitated communicator. These are not subspecies of “the” autist, any more than the autistic is a subspecies of “the” human. These are lives living on the “spec- trum”: on a generic continuum of variation, ranges of which the conven- tional category carves out as pathological and in need of “curing.” These are lives determinedly living, each in its singularly variable way, on a generic continuum, including all of us.
Manning insists on this: we are all on the autistic spectrum, including “neurotypicals” who do not carry the diagnosis. This is not an empty ges- ture of lazy solidarity. And it is in no way meant to deny the reality of aut- ism or to disregard the very real challenges and often extreme conditions of social, familial, and health care system oppression many diagnosed au-
tistics struggle with. What Manning attempts is to acknowledge the reality and the challenges without surrendering any ground to the pathologization entailed by the conventional category. What if autism were approached not in terms of pathology but from the angle of speciation? That is to say, from the mutually inclusive angle of the more than human in us all, in its con- tinuing variation? From the angle of what cuts eventfully, variably across the barriers? From the angle of the emergent vitality affects, qualities of bursting-with-life-determination associated with different degrees on the spectrum, as well as improvised in encounters-between?
Manning argues that there is a mode of perception that attends to the more-than of experience (as always in process philosophy, it’s all about modal distinction, as mentioned earlier). She describes “autistic percep- tion” as a field perception directly apprehending the complex relational pat- terning of spacetimes of experience, in their teeming with contingencies, and in all their uniqueness: a direct perception of the transcendental field of becoming. The countervailing mode of perception “chunks” experience. It immediately divides it into subject- and object-oriented affordances ready- made for the traditional either/or logic and its categorical judgments, pri- marily in this case of usefulness (form-and-function redux, ready for sten- ciling duty).
We all chunk. We are all categorizers and users. Life’s conventional ele- ments demand that of us. But we are all also transcendental-fielders. After all, a chunk is only a chunk against the contrasting background of the field as singular-generic spacetime of experience. Chunky ones come in serial it- eration, against the many-more-than-one of a continuum of variation back- grounded by traditional logic and conventional use. We all chunk, and we all field, but to different degrees, in varying ways.
Manning’s assertion is that the direct perception of the singular-generic, of relational spacetimes of experience, predominates over chunking in those who are pathologized as autistic, and this comes as a result of the very same factors that create the challenges and oppressions of their lives. These fac- tors notably concern neurological variations that express themselves in dif- ficulty activating movement in ways that are conventionally useful as based on pre-chunked affordances (basically, an involuntary deferral of stencil- ing). What Manning calls “autistic perception” is not an inherent property of a subclass of the human category. It is a mode of perception that is a necessary factor in all human experience, but is lived in different ways to different degrees. It is the field perception no one can live without, precisely