xxii PrEluDE
because it brings the more than human into experience. The refrain of the more than human: human plus many-one singular-generic spacetimes of experience; human plus the eventful improvisation of new and emergent vitality affects; human plus contingencies belonging to any number of cate- gories; human plus more than currently human potential.
What could neurotypicals, we on the spectrum who pass unpathologized, learn from those who field before or more than they chunk? Wouldn’t our lives be enriched by upping the degree of fielding we consciously perceive? Can we learn to bring our experiential differences into creative play across the barriers and run with it? Manning is not interested in judging autism. She is not interested in curing it. She is not interested in charity toward it or pitying those who “have” it. She is interested in co-composing with it, collaboratively, toward the more-than-currently-human-potential that may arise from the encounter. While the neurodiversity movement fights for integration, Manning is suggesting that neurotypicals consider the com- plementary but inverse move of what might be called reverse integration: living-with, together in creative co-composition. Coming-together in such a way that the “properties” of “logically” mutually exclusive categories of being collude, across their differences and because of them, toward the improvisation of new vitality affects, new burstings with life, toward new speciations, new “a” life-living the one and the many in reciprocal pre- supposition.
In each domain through which it passes, Always More Than One dedicates its writing to the wonder of the ever-varying manyness of all that comes as one, and always more. Everywhere it is a question of invention: relational techniques for performing events of co-composition qualifying as specia- tions. Everywhere, individuation in the fielding of singular-generic. As for the primacy of movement that it is necessary to posit for thinking indi- viduation, the reader will be left to discover it on their own. How movement moves individuation, and in the process makes that ultimate chunk we call our body an event requiring a verb—bodying—will likewise be deferred.
A final observation will suffice: this is unabashedly a philosophy of life. Not, of course, as a category mutually exclusive of nonlife. Rather, as a quality of bursting-with. Life-quality—vitality—affect. The vital affective refrain, repeated in all of Manning’s books, is from Nietzsche: “If this is life, then once more!”
Or: if this is life, then more than one already!