Thinking-with is a practice difficult to cite. For it happens in the between of writing, at the thresholds where the work takes on new direction, breathes into consistency, falters. Where the writing thinks beyond where it has been able to think before. It is with this practice of collective thinking that a book begins to take form. Thank you to those who are often invisible in the writ- ing but everywhere felt in the process.
Andrew Murphie, for the ethos that is at the core of your practice—be it writing, or thinking, or organizing, or publishing. This project was moved by the force of thought you embody.
Lone Bertelsen, for your work on wonder, a concept that, though not foregrounded here, is at the core of what I think life can do. For wonder is before the subject, beyond the form, in the interstices where life-living is at its most intensive and its most ineffable.
Bill Connolly, for always bringing Nietzsche back and inviting his refrain—“Was that life? Well then! Once more!”—to frame the question of the political.
Tom Lamarre, for your true infradisciplinarity, that insatiable curiosity that takes you far afield into other peoples’ thinking.
Pia Ednie-Brown, for being of the middling, and for crafting from that environment of the more-than. Yours is an ethos of research-creation.
Sher Doruff, for your inventive practice of diagrammatic thinking. And, in the spirit of diagramming, for always keeping the conversation going.
William Forsythe, Elizabeth Waterhouse, and Christopher Roman, for
informing my work on movement, and for showing the world that philoso- phy and movement dance together.
Catherine de Zegher, for intuitively knowing that curating is a kind of choreographic thinking. And for knowing that art’s intervention takes form in the field of relation.
Ralph Savarese, for the writing, the talking, the jumping, the singing, all in the name of neurodiversity. And for honoring the voices of the poets.
Mireille Painchaud, for a long-standing commitment to experimentation with relational movement. And for being my best friend.
Steven Shaviro, for always taking the time for philosophy. Yours is truly a practice of thinking-with.
Isabelle Stengers, for answering my muddled question, years ago, about Whitehead’s concept of the proposition. I have not stopped thinking about it since.
The SenseLab—Nasrin Himada for pushing me harder on questions of violence and politics; Christoph Brunner for insatiably inventing techniques for research-creation; Leslie Plumb for living and designing the transversal; Mazi Javidiani for your quietly insistent curiosity, and that laugh; Bianca Scliar for always knowing how to activate things and keep them moving; Felix Rebolledo for taking on the task and making something of it; Andreia Oliveira for making the link between art and philosophy felt; Charlotte Far- rell for enlivening, and for tending; Andrew Goodman for caring for rela- tions in the making (and making sure we are fed); Jondi Keane for under- standing the force of practice for thought in the crafting; Mike Hornblow for sustained experiments on how movement diagrams; Paul Gazzola for being a free radical; Jonas Fritsch for thinking between the lines and design- ing beyond the object; Sean Smith for always knowing how to make a game out of it; Philipa Rothfield for making movement the philosophical ques- tion; Derek McCormack for attending to how space moves; Jaime DelVal for always being willing to take risks; Nathaniel Stern for composing with the event; Luciana Parisi for being the most speculative thinker I know; Stama- tia Portanova for taunting me with the idea that there is movement with- out a body; Anna Munster for not taking for granted that we know what a network can do; Thomas Jellis for having the intuition that labs are experi- ments in the making; Iain Kerr and Petia Morosov for the next collective experiment; Ronald Simon for giving me back my work from a new angle; Alanna Thain for the care you give to the relation; Toni Pape for the artistry