In Esther Bick’s psychoanalytic theory, the infant’s relation to the world is mediated by the skin’s capacity to serve as a container for experience: “In its most primitive form, the parts of the personality are felt to have no binding force amongst themselves and must therefore be held together in a way that is experienced by them passively, by the skin functioning as a boundary” (1987, 114). Before there can be introjection or projection,1 Bick argues that the infant must become “able to hold himself together in his own ‘skin’ in the absence of the external holding object, without spilling out and falling to bits” (2002, 209). As the infant develops, containment increasingly ex- presses cohesion of self, as fostered by the continued interaction with the caretaker: “if the caregiver is meaningfully present, then the infant’s mind will likely be experienced as integrated—as bound and held together, while if the caregiver is meaningfully absent, then the infant’s mind will likely be experienced as unintegrated—as broken and falling to pieces” (Lafrance 2009, 7). Through an emphasis on particular forms of interaction—forms that specifically involve skin-to-skin touch2—an infant is given the recep- tacle necessary for eventual interactive self-sufficiency. With the skin closed by a sense of self-containment, the infant will not later risk the deterritori- alization caused by leakage, a deterritorialization that, in true psychoana- lytic form, will come with myriad symptoms associated with the necessity of creating “second skins.”3
What if the skin were not a container? What if the skin were not a limit at which self begins and ends? What if the skin were a porous, topological surfacing of myriad potential strata that field the relation between differ-
ent milieus, each of them a multiplicity of insides and outsides? Following psychoanalytic theory such as that posited by Bick, skin-as-container re- inforces feelings of aliveness and existence,4 whereas the lack of contain- ment fosters a state of incoherence associated with anxiety and annihila- tion. Without self-containment, “the infant fears that its self will dissolve and, ultimately, leak into a limitless space” (Lafrance 2009, 9). To posit skin-as-container as the starting point for the notion of interactive self- sufficiency is to begin with the idea that the well-contained human is one who can actively (and protectively) take part in self-self interactions. Self- self interactions depend on a strict boundary between inside and outside.5 They occur within the realm of clearly bounded selves, including the clear boundedness of objects. Interaction is understood here as the encounter be- tween two self-contained entities (human-to-human or human-to-object). What if, instead of placing self-self interaction at the center of develop- ment, we were to posit relation as key to experience? Relation, understood here in a Jamesian sense,6 is a making apparent of a third space opened up for experience in the making. This third space (or interval) is active with the tendencies of interaction but is not limited to them.7 Relation folds experi- ence into it such that what emerges is always more than the sum of its parts. Finally, what if neither skin nor self were the starting point for the com- plex interrelational matrix of being and worlding? Being and worlding de- pend on the activity of reaching-toward.8 Reaching-toward foregrounds the relationality inherent in experience, a kind of feeling-with the world.9 This tending-toward is a sensing-with that does not occur strictly at the level of the sensory-motor. It happens across strata, both actual and virtual.10 A looking becomes a touching, a feeling becomes a hearing. But not on the skin or in the body. Across strata, both concrete and abstract, that con- stitute an assemblage. This assemblage is a sensing body in movement, a
body-world that is always tending, attending to the world.
In equal measure, the world also tends toward the becoming-body. Body- worlding is much more than containment, much more than envelope. It is a complex feeling-assemblage that is active between different co-constitutive milieus. It is individuation before it is self, a fielding of associated milieus that fold in, on, and through one another. For the associated milieu is never “between” constituted selves: the associated milieu is the resonant field of individuation, active always in concert with the becomings it engenders. Becoming-self is one of the ways in which this folding (body-worlding) ex- presses itself, but never toward a totalization of self—always toward con-
tinued individuation.11 “To think individuation it is necessary to consider being not as substance, matter or form, but as a tensile oversaturated sys- tem beyond the level of unity” (Simondon 1995, 23). Self is a modality— a singularity on the plane of individuation—always on the way toward new foldings. These foldings bring into appearance not a fully constituted human, already-contained, but co-constitutive strata of matter, content, form, substance, and expression. The self is not contained. It is a fold of immanent expressibility.
Daniel Stern’s account of infancy expresses this in psychological terms. For Stern, relation is always the first principle of worlding: “How we experi- ence ourselves in relation to others provides a basic organizing perspective for all interpersonal events” (1985, 6). Stern’s argument makes relation pri- mary, constituting the relational as the very core through which any kind of sense of self is constituted. While Bick’s and later Ogden’s psychoana- lytic theories make interaction a necessity, their matrix is not relational: it always presupposes a constituted, bounded self and other (or self and self ). Stern, on the other hand, treats the relation as the node of creative interpersonal potential, shifting, I would argue, from a self-self model of interaction (where the relation is posited as passive between active subjects) toward a radically empirical notion of immanent relationality where rela- tion is considered as “real” as the terms in the relation.
Stern begins in the preverbal realm, suggesting that “several senses of the self do exist long prior to self-awareness and language” (1985, 6). With the assertion that there are “several senses of self,” Stern emphasizes that tendencies outlined in early infancy do not build toward a contained view of self, but rather lead toward the creation of a multiplicity of strata, each of them differently expressive under variable conditions.12
For Stern, a core sense of self involves a non-self-reflexive awareness (1985, 6). Preverbal awareness is linked by Stern to direct experience. Direct experience is of the order of the event. Similar to William James’s concept of “pure experience,” defined as the virtual (nonconscious) edge to all lived experience, direct experience is a form of immanent fielding (Stern calls this organization) through which events become experienced as such.
Direct experience takes place not in the subject or in the object, but in the relation itself.13 The associated milieu is active with tendencies, tunings, incipient agitations, each of which are felt before they are known as such, contributing to a sense of the how of the event in its unfolding. According to Stern, events in early infancy lead toward the creation of modes of orga-
nization. These modes of organization do not preexist experience—they are immanent to it. Through the fielding of relations (in the associated milieu of organization), the infant develops. Contrary to psychoanalytic theory, development for Stern does not come in discrete stages: “development oc- curs in leaps and bounds; qualitative shifts may be one of its most obvious features” (1985, 8). Quantum leaps of development occur in a fractal mode of relation where events build on events, each of them affecting at once the infant and the environment, altering what Stern calls the “social feel” of the infant. In a direct critique of a system that would seek to contain experience and development, Stern writes: “I question the entire notion of phases of development devoted to specific clinical issues such as orality, attachment, autonomy, independence, and trust. . . . The quantum shifts in the social ‘presence’ and ‘feel’ of the infant can . . . no longer be attributed to the de- parture from one specific developmental task-phase and the entrance into the next” (1985, 10).
New senses of self are key to Stern’s model of development. Unlike the idea that the self rests in a containment of skin, Stern proposes that selves build onto and through one another in intimate relation with a changing environment. These senses of self are defined as the emergent, core, sub- jective, and verbal selves, none of which is strictly successive.
Stern’s senses of self are less bounded phases than fractal phase-spaces composed of interweaving strata. “Once formed, each sense of self re- mains fully functioning and active throughout life. All continue to grow and coexist” (Stern 1985, 22). No stratum is ever completely disarticulated from another in the creation of emergent senses of self. Rather, strata veer through and across one another in the associated milieu’s intensive field- ing. As the infant ages and becomes verbal, for instance, their sense of being a coherent, willful, physical entity—foregrounding strata phasing toward organization—may intermesh with the frustration of not being able to express the feeling-vector of intensity that remains a key aspect of the tending toward coherence—foregrounding the strata phasing toward the virtual or immanence. Every becoming is tinted with this double articula- tion. There is no stable pre- and postverbal state. There is no stable identity that emerges once and for all. Becoming-human is expressed singularly and repeatedly in the multiphasing passage from the feeling of content to the content of feeling, a shift from the force of divergent flows to a systematic integration. This is not a containment toward a stable self. It is a momentary cohesiveness, a sense of self that always remains colored by the interweav-
ing of forces that both direct and destabilize the “self’s” proto-unification into an “I.” With all apparent cohesiveness there remains the effect of the ineffable that acts like a shadow on all dreams of containment. For double articulation reminds us that singular points of identification always remain mired within the complex forces of their prearticulation, prearticulation not strictly as the before of articulation, but the withness of the unutter- able, the ineffable—the quasi-inexpressible share of expressibility—within language. There is no self that is not also emergent, preverbal, affectively oriented toward individuation.
Affect is central to Stern’s analysis of how senses of self develop. Seek- ing to move beyond the limiting realm of the sensory-motor schema, which proposes direct linkages between organs and objects, Stern develops the idea of “vitality affects.” More than any other aspect of his work on preverbal senses of self and emergent individuations, it is the concept of “vitality af- fect” that undoes the notion of self as containment.
Affect in this context can be understood as the preacceleration of experi- ence as it acts on the becoming-body. Preacceleration refers to what has not yet been constituted but has an effect on actualization.14 In the context of a movement, it is the virtual experience of a welling into movement that pre- cedes the actual displacement. Affect moves, constituting the event that, in many cases, becomes-body.
Vitality affects are a range of affect “elicited by changes in motivational states, appetites, and tensions” (Stern 1985, 54). To understand vitality af- fects and the role they play in emergent infant processes, Stern’s concept of amodality is key. In a departure from the idea of sense-presentation— where a sense is located on the skin, associated directly to touch, for in- stance—Stern foregrounds the research that shows that newborns operate by cross-modal transfer. Cross-modal transfer—the feeling of touch that occurs in the seeing, for example—happens without a discrete learning curve. “No learning is needed initially, and subsequent learning about rela- tions across modalities can be built upon this innate base” (Stern 1985, 48). Cross-modal correspondence, and, even more so, amodality (the idea that perception does not locate itself in a sense modality but courses between in rhythms that build correspondences rather than rely on already-occurring sites for sensation), Stern argues, transcends the sense “channel.” This causes a shift toward a supra-modal in-betweenness where sense-events take form that are neither directly associated to an organ nor to an object. Amodality foregrounds not the sense itself but its relational potential. “It is
not, then, a simple issue of a direct translation across modalities. Rather, it involves an encoding into a still mysterious amodal representation, which can then be recognized in any of the sensory modes” (Stern 1985, 51). Amo- dality makes apparent that the infant functions comfortably in the abstract concreteness of the radically empirical: the relation.
The infant is not a passive slate (or a proto-container) into or onto which the world can be written. The infant is itself an emergent experi- ence (an experiment in emergence), an individuation of interweaving strata active in the creation of ontogenetic worldings. These worldings are affec- tive. They meet the infant halfway, transforming, at each level of the co- constitutive strata of experience, being and worlding as they come together. This coming-together is not based on cognitive confirmation. It is precon- scious, situated in a pure experience of proto-awareness. It is an immanent becoming-present of experience in experience, the feeling of a “déjà-vu” in a nowness without, as yet, a past or a future. In preconscious pure experi- ence of ontogenetic worlding, we have not yet succumbed to the promise of linear time, living instead in the active topology of spacetimes of experi- ence that many adults spend their lifetimes resisting. At the heart of these experiential topologies is vitality affect.
Affect can be thought of as supra-modal. It operates across registers: “an affect experience is not bound to any one modality of perception” (Stern 1985, 53). Preconscious, affects alter the force of the event, shaping it be- yond its actual constitution. Affects exceed the realm of the modal, tend- ing toward the edge of experience where amodality takes shape. Think of vitality affect as a species of affect, an affective tuning that operates as a kind of virtual event across myriad actualizations, creating dephasings in experience. If, for Stern’s core sense of self, the organizational stratum is the dominant mode toward which direct experience unfolds, vitality affect can be understood as a co-constitutive qualitative infrastratum that pro- vides a tending-toward immanent feeling in the constitution of the event. Organization is therefore always also experiential and affective—a fielding of relations. According to Suzanne Langer, this quality of life-living accom- panies us through “all the vital processes of life, such as breathing, getting hungry . . . , eliminating, falling asleep . . . , or feeling the coming and going of emotions and thoughts” (qtd. in Stern 1985, 54). We are never without the presence of vitality affects. The associated milieu where the force of life- living agitates is first of all a fielding of affective incipiencies.
From its birth, the infant is immersed in feelings of vitality that trans-
duce into vitality affects (Stern 1985, 54). These feelings double-articulate the relation between content and expression. They make palpable that content and expression are two aspects of the same stratum, “expression having just as much substance as content and content just as much form as expression” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 44). Vitality affects express, shad- ing into and out from content. Experience is, from the beginning, infested with this double articulation. Vitality affects are infinitely multiplicitous. They cannot be pinned down or associated with any finality to the content of an act. Stern speaks of “a thousand smiles, a thousand getting-out-of- chairs, a thousand variations of performance of any and all behaviors . . . each one present[ing] a different vitality affect” (1985, 56). Vitality affects function in the associated milieu of relation: they merge with experience’s tendings-toward feeling and emerge as the feeling of the event.
Stern writes: “The social world experienced by the infant is primarily one of vitality affects before it is a world of formal acts” (1985, 57). Vitality af- fects color immanent events. Not yet experienced as such, immanent events are the nexus through which experience begins to form. Stern’s core sense of self is based on how these experiences veer the becoming-self toward new forms of relation. These new forms of relation in turn feed the pro- cess through which the infant becomes differentiated. Difference does not occur through the stratification of self and other or inside and outside. Dif- ference emboldens processual shiftings between strata that foreground and background modes of experience, each of them affected by incipient reachings-toward, a reaching-toward not of the subject, but of experience itself. Senses of coherence emerge that unfold as feelings of warmth, inten- sity, texture, anguish. Coherence in the realm of the constitutive event.
The event, fed by vitality affects, prompted by amodal relays, and re- routed by senses of coherence (affective tonalities dephasing), takes the form not of discrete “things seen, heard or touched” but of “qualities of shape, number, intensity level” (Stern 1985, 57). Preconscious experience is pure and direct in the sense that it fields virtual events at the cusp of their becoming-actual. In this entwinement with the qualitative, a living of feel- ing creates a taking-form of expression. This taking-form of expression is the dynamic of becoming-selves.
For Stern affective attunement is key to interpersonal becoming. Affec- tive attunement is another mode of immanent relation where the relation radically precedes the purported unity of the self. Attunement is a merging- with of vitality affects across experiences toward emergent events. Not a
feeling-of but a feeling-with. In affective attunement, a relational merg- ing occurs that creates a dephasing of vitality affects around new affective contours. This dephasing is as much a shift in process as a shift in level. It activates what Simondon calls a transduction, a redistribution of processes in the making. This experience is not reducible to the poles of the event, mother and child. It happens in their interval and is co-constitutive of a be- coming that always exceeds their “selves.”
In early infancy, Stern argues, “interpersonal relatedness does not yet exist as distinct from relatedness to things” (1985, 63). An infant is not poised to respond to a human more than she is to respond to the quality and texture of light or to the touch of sound. This does not mean that the in- fant is necessarily on the autistic continuum, as suggested—pejoratively— by Ogden.15 In the early period of a child’s life, relational potential is at its most extreme. This hyperrelationality has not yet found the means to sub- tract singularities from the virtual web of the associated milieu, a subtrac- tion that will later allow a foregrounding of discrete events to be separated out from the complex relational bombardment of their backgrounds. For the infant, experience is always first a qualitative merging of edge and con- tour, intensity and affect. “The infant is asocial, but by virtue of being indis- criminate, not by virtue of being unresponsive, as suggested by psychoana- lytic formulations of a stimulus barrier that protects the infant for the first few months of life” (Stern 1985, 63). This asociality is not against the social. It is a suprasociality, a relationality activated at the very interval of relation itself, not yet having landed on individualization. This is relationality at its most intensive, an opening to the complex fielding of multiplicity as yet un- differentiated. To posit this quality of relationality as “autistic” is both to radically misrepresent suprasociality (by negating its relational force) and to simplify autism (by assuming that autism and the asocial are one and the same).
Understanding how this suprasociality works will allow us to better understand the relationship between vitality affects, affective tonality, and affective attunement. This will in turn lead to a better understanding of autism.
Intensive relationality—a lived experience of affective attunement at its preconscious limit—gets backgrounded in most adults. This results in a more limited capacity to feel the force of preacceleration, to hear and en- gage with the betweenness of prearticulation, with the more-than of ex- perience in the making. As this book will seek to demonstrate, autistics,
on the other hand, do not lose this quality. In her video In My Language,16 Amanda Baggs (2007) emphasizes this fundamental difference. In this two- part video Baggs first creates a sounding-sensing environment by moving through space while activating and being-activated by the welling environ- mentality of the milieu. She moves slowly and carefully, touching, smelling, sounding the environment. Then, in part two, she challenges the notion that by “translating” this experience into spoken language she will make it more “complex” or more “real.”
Through the juxtaposition of two ways of engaging the environment, Baggs foregrounds the inadequacy of concepts that apply hierarchical di- chotomies to experience (like language versus sensation, cognition versus the preconscious). In My Language does not reject language outright. What it does is use first movement and sensation and then language to inquire into our tendency to place language as the determinant of experience. Why would we assume that language can touch every aspect of experience, and why are other ways of sensing or expressing the environment sidelined? Through an intense dance of the environment in its co-composing of a body, the video shows the emergence of an associated milieu that cannot solely be addressed in verbal language. The milieu is hyperrelational, every act calling forth a dephasing, a transduction, a welling of an environmen- tality that constitutively challenges the oneness of the self separated from the milieu of interaction, its skin intact. Her hands moving through run- ning water, Baggs (2007) explains: “It is about being in a conversation with every aspect of my environment, reacting physically to all parts of my sur- roundings.” There is no standard interaction or containment here, no privi- leging of the word over the activity, no sense of subject and object, body and milieu, or self and self. It is not, as Baggs (2007) emphasizes, about symbolizing experience: “In this part of the video the water doesn’t sym- bolize anything. I am just interacting with the water as the water interacts with me.” In My Language is about foregrounding the rich field of relation activated through multiple interweaving strata in a continuous double ar- ticulation of content and expression.
In much of the literature, autism is associated with a developmental in- capacity to create meaningful (empathetic) relations.17 In My Language coun- ters this claim with a strong political statement. Too often, Baggs says, per- sonhood is directly associated to verbal interaction, which is then posited as relationality. Proposing a different model entirely, backed by an ethics of difference, Baggs’s video forecasts a milieu of the most intense relationality,
one of sound and light, smell and touch, active not simply for the human but in a withness of body-worlding that challenges the very notion that the human is at the center of (relational) experience. Baggs moves through the environment and it moves through her, feeling-with its forms and forces, expressing it as it expresses her. With and without language,18 Baggs is at pains to demonstrate that relation is the how of the world’s co-emergence. There is nothing but relation. It is precisely this intensive relationality, the video suggests, that often makes it difficult for autistics to interact with others. For autistics do not as easily subtract containment from the experience of relation. They do not tend to first and foremost abstract themselves—their “self ”—from the emergent environment. This is precisely a neurotypical tendency, as proponents of neurodiversity would say.19
When containment is no longer the endpoint (and the starting point) of experience, subtraction from the hyperrelation of synesthetic and cross- modal experience lags behind. The unified verbal self is no longer the first to emerge. Baggs (2007) explains, citing a social context where she would be assumed to be “nonrelational”: “I mean that when I am around a group of people, their voices may turn into the sound of water, their movements may all sort of blend together, but in their movements I see patterns not only of individuals but of the people interacting within a group, and the individual’s place within the group, and their effect on the group and the group’s effect on them, and on each other. I see this particularly well when not trying to understand what they’re saying to each other.”20
The complexity of vitality affects and how they create fields of intensity is apparent in Baggs’s statement about the challenge of facing social environ- ments. As she makes clear, it is not that she “withdraws” or that she can’t engage. It is that the feeling of the event—its vitality affect—takes over to such a degree that she cannot extricate a “contained self” for interaction from the event’s dynamic emergence. Amanda Baggs directly experiences the event’s vitality, the force of its taking-form. This experience shapes her bodying, calling forth a field of relation through which she emerges as a multiplicity rather than a static, interactive self. To interact in a self- contained verbal way would involve parsing this multiple taking-form into a single activity of form-taking. For Baggs, it would mean parsing one very minute aspect of actual experience from the wider and richer realm of pure experience.
Infants bathe in pure experience. This state of quasi-consciousness is of the edge, not the center. It is only of the skin if the skin is considered in
its topological foldings with and through the associated milieu that is the world’s becoming. Pure experience is a relational, amodal state. It reaches- toward experience in the making. In this state, worlding is perceived di- rectly. Qualities are foregrounded, and through the double articulation of content and expression, individuating senses of self begin to emerge. Feeling-vectors predominate, not cognitions, actions, or perceptions as such. These feelings are co-constitutive of being and worlding, invested, always, in the milieu and its associations, never deliberately linear or causal. “The elements that make up these emergent organizations are simply differ- ent subjective units from those of adults who, most of the time, believe that they subjectively experience units such as thoughts, perceptions, actions, and so on, because they must translate experience into these terms in order to encode it verbally” (Stern 1985, 67).
The infant-world relation affectively tunes to the force-field of events in- forming. Affective attunement is a preconscious tuning-with that sparks a new set of relations that in turn affect how singular events express them- selves in the time of the event. Subtle and ongoing, affective attunements “give much of the impression of the quality of the relationship” (Stern 1985, 141). Affective attunement makes felt the activation contours of experience, the intensity, as Suzanne Langer would say, of virtual feeling.21 This links affective attunement to affective tonality rather than either to empathy or to the matching of behavior. Stern defines this as a matching of feeling. If feel- ing is not secondary to experience but is the very activity of relation that makes up experience, affective attunement need not be solely located on a human scale. If conceived beyond human interaction, affective attunement might well describe the relational environment co-created by movement and sound in Amanda Baggs’s video In My Language. Affective attunement: an open field of differentiation out of which a singularity of feeling emerges and merges. A tuning not of content but of expression-with.
Singularities such as emergent selves are co-constituted in a field of ex- perience. They reach-toward in a worlding that becomes them. This world- ing is intensified by vitality affects that themselves tune to the world, calling forth landing sites.22 These landing sites are less a specific node of space- time than the conditions for the propelling of the event’s actualization. In Baggs’s In My Language, we feel the emergent landing sites every time a con- tour begins to sound, taking-form in the event of its expressibility. A three- part scene makes this felt. The scene begins with Baggs facing the window, her back to us. A tonal sounding accompanies the movement of her hands
fluttering at her sides as she rocks back and forth. We are lulled by the move- ment, which then shifts quite seamlessly to the movement of a metal im- plement scraping against a surface. This scraping continues to move with the rhythm of the tonal singing, adding to it, but on another plane of ex- perience. Now, we see only the hand, the implement and its shadow on the wall: a tonal rhythm in scraping movement. Then, another shift, this time to fingers moving along a computer keyboard, creating a softer, plushier sound, aligned, still, with the sound of the voice. There is no cut here: the video continues this way. This three-part transition makes felt how the land- ing occurs. It’s not that these are discrete sites—they are continuities in the sounding through which certain qualities of shift of resonance are fore- grounded. Each contour stands out for itself as a remarkable point pre- cisely because of the movement carrying-across. These remarkable points are landings, but landings only in the sense that they activate the force of transition that is the carrying-across.
Landing sites are force-fields tending toward relational form. Through the eventness of force taking form, landings site the environment bodying such that it coalesces into a singularity to which we can attach content. This becoming-event of worlding or landing is first and foremost a feeling, a way of relating, a mode of engagement. Subtracted into an actual occasion, the event folds the infinity of potential landings into a singular iteration, an it- eration poised, always, to individuate again, under different and new con- ditions.
Individuation happens at the surface, not of the skin, but through a surfacing multiplicity, “a smooth, amorphous space . . . constituted by an accumulation of proximities, . . . each accumulation [defining] a zone of indiscernability proper to ‘becoming’ (more than a line and less than a sur- face; less than a volume and more than a surface)” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 488). When the skin becomes not a container but a multidimensioned topological surface that folds in, through, and across spacetimes of experi- ence, what emerges is not a self but the dynamic form of a worlding that refuses categorization. Beyond the human, beyond the sense of touch or vision, beyond the object, what emerges is relation.