Movement is everywhere, always, at all scales, speeds, and slownesses. Total movement, as José Gil would say. Or absolute movement, in Deleuze and Guattari’s vocabulary. Which means: in order to have a metric move- ment, one that is added or subtracted in a measurable way, we must cut the total movement, crack the duration that, otherwise, flows unimpeded through all expressions of the world. In this cracking, new durations will
create new processes. There is never stability. And there can never be non- movement—even in what appears to be complete stillness there is quality of movement-moving, force of form.
For Deleuze and Guattari, absolute movement is a vibration, a resonance that precedes all form or structure. Absolute movement is without a sub- ject—it passes through, it flows, but it does not yet cut: “there are only relations of movement and rest, speed, and slowness between unformed elements, or at least between elements that are relatively unformed, mole- cules and particles of all kinds. There are only haecceities, affects, subject- less individuations that constitute collective assemblages” (1987, 266).
This singular displacement, this occasion of experience—these are cuts from total movement. They land total movement, dimensionalizing it, opening total movement to an actualizing in concert with the now of time in the making. Total movement is felt in the now when the incongruity be- tween the force of an infinity of potential and the limit-cut of the actual work together to activate the resonant shadow of a movement-moving that, while it never quite actualizes, continues to move through the actual move- ment such that movement-moving co-composes with what is actually ex- perienced in time. Everyday movement tends to background this quality, but this does not mean the force of movement-moving isn’t always active, contributory.
Despite appearances, movement is not of a body. It cuts across, co- composing with different velocities of movement-moving. It bodies. The body-as-such is an extraction that appears in the collision of movement- moving and actual movement, a momentary collusion of tendencies that seem to make up a whole. Form in its bare actuality is a mirage. With total movement always coursing through it, form is infinitely more-than. Ex- trude the body, as William Forsythe would say, to find this movement in the more-than, to find the movement-moving coursing through actual move- ment.
There are an infinity of ways of touching on the more-than that is movement-moving. Dance is one example. What dance gives us are tech- niques for distilling from the weave of total movement a quality that com- poses a bodying in motion. This quality is a vibration that exists as a move- ment of thought. Not a thinking that is outside, beyond movement-moving, but a thinking that composes-with movement, with-body-in-the-making. A thinking that defines its own terms, in the moving, that touches on the realm of absolute movement as it co-composes with actual movement. A