Individuation
“The body” is a misnomer. Nothing so stable, so certain of itself ever sur- vives the complexity of worlding. And yet we inevitably use the concept as shorthand—how else to talk about issues of agency, of identity, of territo- riality? Relation is the quick answer, with “the body” as a certain version of an endpoint, or, better said, a transition point. The body, here defined, is what comes-to-be under specific and singular conditions. It is the amalga- mation of a series of tendencies and proclivities, the cohesive point at which a multiplicity of potentialities resolves as this or that event of experience.1 If the body isn’t the starting point, what is? According to Gilbert Simon- don, the body is a relative fact, a phase of being. Every phase of being is co- constituted by two commingling dimensions of process: individuation and the preindividual. Individuation and the preindividual cannot be thought separately—they are two sides of the same coin. Individuation is process in its unfolding through a multiplicity of phases. The preindividual is the phaseless excess—the more-than—that envelops yet exceeds the nowness of the process in its unfolding. The preindividual is the germ of potential in every activity. It can be thought as the force of becoming akin to the pull of
the Deleuzo-Guattarian virtual where it combines with the actual. The pre- individual is real and it is felt, but only in its effects. Later, I will pair it with the Deleuzian concept of a life, which is similarly conceived as the force of life that exceeds this life yet cannot be experienced without it.
Every resolution of a process—every actual occasion—carries within itself the more-than of its taking-form. Force is everywhere active, on time- lines that intersect with the occasion at hand, and on transversal lines that extend beyond it or circle through it. The force of the preindividual reminds us that life is neither in the individual nor outside it but in what surpasses it while accompanying it. This means that all resolutions—as body, as indi- vidual, as object—are more-than the forms they inhabit. A body is always more than one: it is a processual field of relation and the limit at which that field expresses itself as such.2
A body is black, gendered, sexed, you might say, adding that these are irrefutable givens that situate the body within the realm of fixed form. Ir- refutable, yes, but only as the limit of a constellation of processes that col- lude to foreground one measure of how the body expresses. Identity is less a form than the pinnacle of a relational field tuning to a certain constella- tion. The question is not “how is the body not black or gendered or sexed?” but “how is the body more-than the classification this singular constella- tion foregrounds?” The question here cannot be limited to the body “itself” as though the body weren’t active in co-constituting the ecology at hand. If that ecology tunes to categories such as color or gender, these aspects of the field will continue to be foregrounded. The issue is not to deny this but to ask how these ecologies come to co-constitute a body in this or that way. The point is not that there is no form-taking, no identity. The point is that all form-takings are complexes of a process ecological in nature. A body is the how of its emergence, not the what of its form. The issue is one of en- gendering:3 how does this singular taking-form happen given the complex collusions of speeds and slownesses, of organic and inorganic tendings, of activities and movements, that resolve into this or that body-event?