Collusions
Individuation happens through what Simondon calls dephasing. Individua- tion is not a linear, continuous process. In the vocabulary of Simondon, a phase is not a temporal moment that is simply replaced by another. There is never just one phase or one individuation, but overlapping phasings hap-
pening in nonlinear time. Dephasing can be seen as the instance where the complex nodes of incipient relation tune toward what can be singled out as a discrete iteration: toward a remarkable point. Dephasing is both this, the activity of a momentary culmination of a multifaceted process, and its ongoing transformation. The transformation spurred by the dephasing is what Simondon calls transduction, defined as a shift in level from indi- viduation to individual, which is at the same time a shift that activates a new process or a new phase of a continuing process. Dephasings, seen from the point of view of the transduction they call forth, are at once how force takes form and how the rift in the continuity of an ongoing process is felt. Dephasing is about the activity of phases commingling to the degree that they generate a turning point that resolves, momentarily, into this or that singular event or discrete occasion of experience—a remarkable point that shifts how an occasion continues to become. Dephasing is what acti- vates what Whitehead calls the becoming of continuity. In Eric Alliez’s words, “far from being the opposite of continuity, the break or interrup- tion conditions this continuity: it presupposes or defines what it cuts into as an ideal continuity” (Alliez and Goffey 2010, 10). A body becomes “it-self” in the break of dephasing.
A body, as such, is therefore extremely short-lived: the body cannot be seen as that which holds together across space and time in a kind of beyond- ness of the event. Body is event, known as such only in the collusions of a process shifting. Think collusion here as the force of agreement (or dis- agreement) between processes or within a process. A complicity. An attune- ment. Collusion brings a field of individuation to a certain resolve.
Through individuation-dephasing-transduction, where formative force becomes form to become force once more, the singular event of a form- taking can never be fully abstracted from the processes from which it has emerged. Dephasing activates a strange commingling between the thisness of a process culminating and its continued relational potential as regards other processes. What we know as “a body” is the relational node that cul- minates as a unity and as the difference of a complex process’s contemporary phasings. A body is continuity and emergent discontinuity—a remarkable point in the becoming of continuity. We know it as such for how it has not persisted in the complex of processes of which it is part.
What is known as such is primarily how experience differs. Only when individuation is interrupted by the dephasing does a process reveal itself as this or that. Since this dephasing is so short-lived, and since the transduc-