A Life
This is the contribution Gilbert Simondon makes to the body: he liber- ates it from the presupposition of a form, demonstrating how a body is alive across interphasings. Deleuze has a term for the force that is activated across these differential processes. He calls it a life, signaling a concept of life that extends beyond the specifically organic to touch on the force of be- coming that accompanies all processes, all phases. A life is another term for the preindividual. It is what accompanies, what remains unresolved, in the taking of form, what defies the hierarchy of the organic with respect to the inorganic in the organization of what we commonly understand as “life.”
The field of experience is alive with bodyings, each of which are nodes of relation—ecologies—actively co-composing with the force of the imper- sonal a life that courses through them. The body as more-than is vitalist only in the sense that it never exists in the negative; it is productive, infinitely, of more life. “Do you know what Life is to me? A monster of energy . . . that
does not expend itself but only transforms itself. . . . A play of forces and waves of forces, at the same time one and many . . . ; a sea of forces flowing and rushing together, eternally changing” (Nietzsche 1967, entry 1067).4
The process of bodying is, as Simondon would say, a continuous case of in-formation: “information is that by which the incompatibility of a non- resolved system becomes an organizational dimension in its resolution: in- formation supposes a change in the phase of a system, since it supposes a first preindividual state that individuates according to the discovered orga- nization” (1989, 22). Information has little to do with a communicational process and even less with a linear one. Information activates a singular form-taking. Information: “internal resonance of a system in the process of individuating, the power radiating from one domain of individuation to another” (Combes 1999, 105). Information activates the coupling of force and form. The individual, or what I am here calling a body, is a process of in- formation, composite and compositional, that singularly resolves but only long enough to activate new phasings. Think the individual as the remark- able point (as Deleuze would say) and the bodying as the complex process continuously informed and informing by the effect of this singularization. Information does not presuppose an already-existing matter-form. In- formation creates the potential for an immanent organization that activates the body’s coming to be this or that and its de-forming into a field of rela- tion, an ecology of a body-becoming. Becoming is not pure continuity. It is continuous dephasing, carrying a process across thresholds. The process is nonlinear, its field the topological surface of life always in co-composition with the forces of a life. A body does not evolve according to a past becoming present becoming future, nor does it evolve in a pure philogeny. Force of life creates blocks of becoming—uneasy alliances: “There is a block of be- coming that takes hold of the cat and baboon, the alliance between which is effected by a C virus” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 238). Life in-formed is life in-forming, coursing through the “between-times,” the “between-
moments” of its bursts into coupling, in collusion (Deleuze 2007, 391).