Life
Life as here defined is not limited to the organic. Life is relation. Propelled by the force of in-formation, life is the tendings and habits and attune- ments, the appetition, that activate the singularity of this or that unfolding process. The question is how life as a field of resonance buoyed by appeti- tion—the enjoyment of a process, the desire for the more-than—is allied to the event in its actuality. This remains an unresolvable tension in experi- ence. On the one hand, there is the thisness of an occasion’s resolution. This resolution (or concrescence) depends on an event singling itself out from the larger field of experience. Yet this singularity cannot tell the whole story. This is why Whitehead emphasizes that while the atomistic quality of the event must be kept in mind, we are here talking about a half second or less of experience. The how of the in-act is the more interesting and com- plex issue. For it is what consistently outlives the actual as defined by this or that singular expression of composition that touches on how a life courses through this life.
Life is always about a double-capture—on the one hand, it is the force of life-living that exceeds this or that life, and on the other, it is the monadic
event of a singular set of conditions in momentary collusion. Life is always between. Too often, life is conceived as that which frames the already- constituted—life as human, life as organic. Life as defined here in no way privileges the human. Nor is it constituted as an envelope for experience. Life is life-living, in act, replete with the indefinable force of a life coursing through it. Life is a complex of feeling, an ecology not reducible to its data, to its content or its form-takings. Life is the plurality of becoming as felt, a plurality not of many parts—this would place the plural below the category of being—but a plurality at the very level of becoming, a multiplicity in act.
Life as such—this life—is known through the dephasings of processes of individuation. Yet each dephasing also activates a germ of force, a re- mains, a more-than of this life. Every life-welling carries within itself both the activity of its emergence in the now of experience and the seeds of its having-been many-phased: “an actual particle has its virtual double, which barely diverges from it at all” (Deleuze 1997, 150)—a collusion of the re- markable point with the associated milieu of relation.
Life—a hunger for difference, an appetite for the more-than.