Body as Society
For Whitehead, a body is a society—a body is a complex of feeling in co- composition with life-living. On the nexus of being and becoming, a body is more expressivity than form. This is the complexity of Whiteheadian thought, that while it insists that an occasion marks the finality, the ato- micity of a singular process, it continuously reminds us that the occasion is so short-lived that it is ultimately the multiplicity of transductions acti- vated by its dephasings that defines experience. In Whiteheadian vocabu- lary, “each actual entity, although complete so far as concerns its micro- scopic process, is yet incomplete by reason of its objective inclusion of the macroscopic process. It really experiences a future which must be actual, although the completed actualities of that future are undetermined” (1978, 215). Each foray into worlding involves the generating of a field that is co- constituted by all the pastnesses and futurities that compose it. The ques- tion is not simply “what is the body” but “how will the bodying persist.”
The bodying persists in its self-enjoyment as process: “organic philoso- phy interprets experience as meaning the ‘self-enjoyment of being one among many, and of being one arising out of the composition of many’ ” (Whitehead 1978, 145). Bodying persists as the more-than that strives to
activate the forces of difference within its generative potential. In this re- gard, bodying is a lure to feeling. Lures for feeling call forth new immanent associations and new assemblages, bringing these constellations to life in the complex intersection between this life and a life. “Feelings are ‘vectors’; for they feel what is there and transform it into what is here” (Whitehead 1978, 87).
The lure for feeling that activates time’s differential makes felt the multi- plicity of each now. Bodying does not happen once and for all on a linear timeline. There is no question that it resolves as an occasion of experience, and that this resolution has a specific date and time, but as a lure for feeling bodying is less a stable rendering of metric time than a collusion of dura- tions. Because every resolution activates a transduction, new processes are continuously under way. A body is a durational multiplicity, a becoming of continuity, not a continuity of becoming.
Lures for feeling do not achieve form per se. They generate attunements, tendencies, force of form. This is why Whitehead speaks of “subjective form” more than of form itself. What an occasion ultimately achieves is strictly speaking not a form but a tending, a mobile ecology. An occasion is less an object or a body than a node of relation expressing itself mo- mentarily as this or that—an edging into object, a swerving into body. The how or the expressivity of this relational node is the occasion’s subjective form. “[T]here are many species of subjective forms, such as emotions, valuations, purposes, adversions, aversions, consciousness, etc.” (White- head 1978, 24). The subjective form of an event is how an occasion of ex- perience has come to feel itself in the culmination of this or that process. While the culmination of a process into this or that subjective form has a definite endpoint, the affective tonality of the now perishing occasion will continue to color the process of the occasion shifting from its determinate nature to its perishing on the nexus of experience. From appetite to event back to appetite.
The nexus in Whitehead is the immanent field where the force of event- ness can be felt. It is contributory rather than known or experienced as such. What is contributed from the nexus into subsequent occasions is not a given form. The form of the occasion has perished. What remains is the appetition, the force of form. If what drives life is the creative advance always active in the constellation of occasions that make up experience, and experience is always to some degree co-constituted by the nexus of past and contemporary occasions, the nexus can be thought as the relational field
that contributes a more-than to each taking-form. What is reactivated from the nexus into a given occasion is not the form the past occasion took. It is the lure for feeling, the lure for the creativity generated at the heart of difference. For each occasion, as stated above, only emerges as such as the difference in a multiphasing process of individuation. To have emerged as this or that constellation is to have colluded into a dephasing that activated a differential between what was and what will have come to be. Whitehead’s notion of the “creative advance” rests on the understanding that experience is not continuous but composed of differentials and integrations—once more, the becoming of continuity. The creative advance is not novelty in the sense of the “never before” in the capitalist sense of the “newest new.” It is the capacity of an event to activate certain vectors otherwise backgrounded, thereby generating an uneasy field of difference. This field of difference is complex in that it does not deny what it cannot include. To the contrary, it celebrates exactly this fissure, engendering the new out of a resonance of background/foreground. Novelty: less event in-itself than differential of the event in its coming-to-form.