Transindividuation
What is known as such, it bears repeating, is not the preindividual, not the nexus, or a life, but the forces of collusion that bring a multiphasing process of individuation to an individualization. But what is also known, albeit in a different register than conscious knowing, I want to argue here, is the ex- cess, the more-than of this process.
The in-act always involves a tensile weave of the actual and the virtual, of the preindividual and individuation, of a life and this life. This is why each actual occasion is more-than what it seems. It is more-than because it carries in its dephasing a quality of a surplus that cannot be contained by the occasion. The occasion is implicitly multiple—collective—in the sense that its emergence involves not only its definiteness as this or that, but its complexity as a field of relation that co-combines with the nexus of which it has been/will have been part. An occasion cannot undo itself of the ten- sile weave of which it is made. Any occasion is at once the absoluteness of it-self in the moment of its concrescence and the will-have-become of its tendencies, attunements, and appetitions, both past and future.
Take the event of a ray of sunlight that alters the color of the kitchen wall
on a sunny early morning. Usually, the wall is light yellow. But this morn- ing the wall is luminous, lighting up the kitchen in a way that exceeds this or that definite color. It is still yellow, but it is also more-than yellow—how to define it? A yellowness? This musing on color is instantaneous. It is not a reflection on color but an immediate feeling activated by the event of the light. Certainly, it can later be reflected upon, and the experience can sub- sequently shift, but what will result from this reflection will always have been another occasion of experience. The specific and singular first experi- ence of luminousness cannot be altered. Once felt it cannot become what it wasn’t. This is the paradox: the occasion is absolute in its singularity and infinitely contributory, as quality or haecceity, in the excess of what it will have been.
What will have been felt as this singular event of color-light-feeling will now forever exist in the perceptual field it has cogenerated. And yet this quality of yellowness, say, will, in its perishing onto the nexus of experi- ence, already and immediately have co-composed with all previous and sub- sequent feelings of luminosity. There will never be an experience of lumi- nosity—or any experience of light, of color, of joy, of warmth, or of the terrible unease of another day lost to depression despite the season’s shift— that will not have the capacity to connect to the feeling generated by this event. In its reemergence in a next event, however, the yellowness may feed a completely different process, even to the extent that the subjective form of the occasion in question may be far removed from the earlier experience of luminosity as a joyful tending to yellow. To call this yellowness a “thing” would be to underestimate the complexity of its ecology and the field of feeling it calls forth both in the present and in its futurity. The luminosity is less object than field of relation. It is less color as such than compositional force.
The yellowness is a transindividuation. Transindividuations remind us that every event is a node of activity that is intensively relational. This color, this kitchen scenario—these are but passing points of contact, expressive culminations in a wider process of transindividuation: in the complex phas- ings and dephasings of life-living, yellow is a node passing through and across, an expression of a nowness always already traversed by forces that exceed it.
An event never fully actualizes. Or, better said, the actual is never fully actual: it is in act. What is in act is not the body as such or the event’s time-
line but its force of life-living. This force of life is the problematization at the heart of each transductive process, a problematization that incites adap- tation, modification. This is not adaptation or modification after the fact: it is modification in the process of becoming, a multiphasing of potential operative on the strata of co-constitutive individuations.