Affect
Milieu is not the neutral in-between. A body is not separate from its milieu. Milieu, or the associated milieu, as Simondon calls it, is a relational field activated by the event in-forming. No event occurs in a vacuum—event and milieu are always cogenerative. This means that the milieu cannot be under- stood in spatial terms. It is an affective attunement more than a space, a field more than a form.
Affect, understood along the lines of Whitehead’s concept of feeling, is a transductive force that propels being to become across the phases of its individuation. Affect is of the milieu: it resituates the body as force of form within what Isabelle Stengers (2010) calls an “ecology of practices.”5 Af- fect activates the very connectibility of experience. It is the force, the lure, through which a certain constellation comes to expression.
Take the example of a snake in the context of a phobia. Wandering through the desert, everything is felt as the force of snakeness. There is no rustling that does not elicit fear. But this is fear even before it can be de- fined. It is in the edginess of pace, the tenseness of posture. It alters how each step is taken. Every quick movement—lizard, wind, fly—activates a certain bodying that attends, intensively, to an environment in the making. A body is in-forming, a bodying more fear than form, taut with a foreboding as yet undefined yet all-consuming. Since bodying cannot be thought with- out milieu, it is not simply the body that is tense but the field of the event itself that is poised. An emergent ecology is forming—one of jitteriness, of hyperattention, of sensory acuity. An intensive feltness of the jarring con- trasts of the desert is perhaps how this ecology expresses itself perceptually, coupled with the hyperattentive peripheral vision that sounds each micro- movement. A slight shift can make all the affective difference, however. A move toward the water that flows at the bottom of the desert canyon— where snakes don’t wander—immediately retunes the body-event. A differ- ent ecology soon emerges. This ecology is marked by a new field of affect.
A calm—unimaginable before—perhaps now activates the beauty of the desert’s intense colors, with the play of shade and light now tuning to the smell of the late afternoon while the flow of water around the many rocks of the canyon bed moves the walking.
For the nonphobic, for whom this hypervigilance is not necessary, there will likely have been all along an enjoyment of the breeze, an attunement to bird calls, resulting in a lightness in the posture afforded by the capacity to attend to more than the rustling grasses. The point is that the same macro- event creates different bodyings in different ecologies co-constituted by dif- ferent emergent milieus. Not only that: these different contemporary body- ings also create potential resonances, sharing not the content of experience per se, but the quality of how the ecologies unfold in the futurity of their collective iteration. How a bodying evolves in this desert-event will always have been completely linked to how the milieu evolves and how it in turn affects the becoming-bodies in its midst. The ecology or associated milieu of the event will have been inseparable from its affect.
Affect is the feeling-vector of individuation’s process as it tunes to its dephasing. It is transformative. And it is collective. It is collective because it is always coincident with the forces that bring it into being and which it activates. It is collective in that it continuously folds individuation into the preindividual, making the force of a life felt in this life. It is collective in that it connects to an ecology before it selects for an individual. Affect is collec- tive because it tunes to a multiplicity of forces already phasing, because it is itself a force of attunement. The collective understood here is not the many parts of the multiplication of discrete bodies. The collective is the multi- plicity of a life welling across the topological surfaces of being where the many become one (and are increased by one).