The Outside
Affect does not hold onto being; it activates the threshold that disperses it, always anew. To “threshold” is to create a new field, to propel a dephasing. In its dispersal of being, affect does not undermine the possibility of being. It multiplies it at its collective limit where there is never “one single pos- sible state of being’s achievement” (Simondon 1989, 215). In the collective, it bears repeating, there is no predetermining “I.” Activity keeps the “I” at bay. This does not mean that affect cannot give way to an occasion that re- solves into the specificity of an “I,” but that the “I” is the afterthought of a complex affective process that will always nonetheless, to some degree, re- tain the collectivity at the heart of its having come-to-be.
This having come-to-be can never be completely abstracted from the in- tensive mixtures of the process out of which it emerged and into which it will feed. It is important to think affect not linearly as that which only spurs the process toward a dephasing on one end of the spectrum. Affect is also that which is left over from the subtraction of a field of potential.
You can think of affect in the broadest sense as what remains of life potential after each or every thing a body says or does—as a perpetual bodily remainder. Looked at from a different angle, this perpetual re- mainder is an excess. It’s like a reserve of potential or newness or cre- ativity that is experienced alongside every actual production of meaning
in language or in any performance of a useful function—vaguely but di- rectly experienced, as something more, a more to come—a life overspill- ing as it gathers itself up to move on. (Massumi 2011a)
Affect is always and only force. Think affect, as Deleuze (1988b) would say, as the force of the outside. The outside is here not juxtaposed to an in- side—it is not about containment. The outside is the limit where life as force of form resonates. “There is first of all the outside which exists as an unformed element of forces: the latter come from and remain attached to the outside, which stirs up their relations and draws out their diagrams” (1988b, 43). When Deleuze speaks of the diagram here he is not speaking of a fixed form. He is speaking of a set of tendencies in resonance. In De- leuzian terms, we could think life as the diagram the outside calls forth. This diagram is full of permutations and potentials—it is the force of a coming-to-form that generates a shaping of experience. This definition of life pairs it with a life: life as the irreducible outside that has no ultimate form, no final measure. Life-living as always coupled with a life is the dia- grammatic force that activates the collective individuation through which transindividuations emerge. For here the body is always already collective, transversed with the force of the preindividual as transindividuation.
The outside is a fold on the topological surface of a becoming-body. New compositions emerge on this surface through the bursts of the singu- lar becomings dephasings call forth. Bursts because dephasings involve a bringing-to-life of new processes, new fields of feeling. “[T]here must be a more-than-being, a new individuation, so that sensations can coordinate into perceptions; there also has to be a more-than-being of the subject so that affections become affective world” (Simondon 1989, 116).