Think the body as an ecology of operations that straddles the flesh of its matter and the environmentality of its multiple takings-form. From such an environmentality retain the idea of technique. Think technique not as an add-on to a preexisting body-form but as a process of bodying. Think technique as an in-forming of a mutating body. And then think that body as a field of relations rather than a stability, a force taking-form rather than simply a form. See technique as the mode through which a body can ex- press, aligning into this expression qualities of its bodying (aspects of its motor tendencies, aspects of its existing experiential matrix). Make it, as Deleuze and Guattari would say, a body without organs. Make it more-than its biological organization.
Cleave the notion of the body beyond the human. Connect it to all that co-combines with it to create a movement of thought. Keep the movement of thought in the world (instead of putting it back in the body) and see what it can do. Consider this image: you are in the garden, your knees covered in mud, hands deep in the earth for an early spring planting. Instead of seeing the earth as a quality apart from the knee attached to a preexist- ing human form, see the knee-hand-earth as a worlding, a force of form, an operative ecology. See this ecology as an active technique for creating, for the bodying, a taste of spring. Instead of thinking the body as sepa- rate from the earth, as separate from the arrival of spring, see the ecology knee-hand-earth in a spring planting as a technique for tuning the season. Notice that the more the knee-hand-earth constellation becomes its own
intensive entity, the more the feeling of spring beckons even though the air is still winter-cool. Were this November in Montreal, there would definitely be no such feeling of incipient warmth: the gardening assemblage in that season tunes more toward closing things in than opening them up. What is different between these two scenarios? In the spring, the knee-hand-earth assemblage is tuning beyond its novembering technique to encompass a quality of tuning-toward: this is a gardening with an anticipation of the feeling of spring. Incipient smells, the quality of a breeze, the texture of the earth, all of these tune the technique of gardening toward what it can call forth here and now, what its assemblage can become in this day in May. This is not just about sewing a seed, it is about reconstituting the relation climate-body-environment. It is about becoming co-constituted by an en- vironmentality in the making. The technique of gardening for spring has transduced into an incipient call for the season to blossom.
Now that there is a sense of how the body evolves as an assemblage in this gardening scenario, consider the role of the object or “matter”—the garden spade, the earth, the tulip bulb—keeping in mind that, like the body, an ob- ject is a milieu of relations that are activated through vectors of association in the aliveness of a singular event. And yet, an object is also different from a body in the sense that it attunes toward roles activated by the implicit forces not only in its objectness but of the environment of which it becomes a rela- tional part. An object is as much how it does as what it does. Think this ob- ject in relation to this multiplicity, in its competing orders of magnitude, as a speciation that is never disconnected from the event of its coming-to-be (blade-density-resistance, rhythm-handle-forearm).1 Think the object not as this or that preconstructed iteration but as that which calls forth implicit forces that affect not only the objects themselves but the environmentalities of which they are part. And think these implicit forces as the conduit, the vector or force of matter’s inherent capacity to become more-than. Think the object not ontologically but processually. Objects in-forming are exact- ingly co-imbricated with the implicit forces of their potential to become in an ecology of practices. This is their technicity. Technicity is the modality for creating out of a system of techniques the more-than of system. In the gardening example, technicity is the how of the ecology—the metal push of spade that calls forth the taste of a breeze that is felt as the leaving-behind of the impassability of winter, an ecology that activates, in a kind of future presenting, the coming spring.
Technique and technicity coexist. Where technique engages the repeti-
tive practices that form a composing body—be it organic or inorganic— technicity is a set of enabling conditions that exact from technique the potential of the new for co-composition. Think the new not as a denial of the past but as the quality of the more-than of the past tuning toward the future. The new is a qualitative difference, already felt in the will-have-been. Time loops. The past now carries a potentiality that was always there but was backgrounded. Its implicit forces are coming to expression in a mu- tability that will in-form future relational constellations, eventually trans- ducing into technique that which will be reiterable, repeatable. But beyond the technique something else can take place. A setting into eventness of implicit forces creates an opportunity for the coming event’s technicity to express itself. Think technicity as the process that stretches out from tech- nique, creating brief interludes for the more-than of technique, gathering from the implicit the force of form. Think technicity as that which marks the difference in the event of gardening, an event that, on the surface, uses the same techniques whether in November or in May. Think technicity as the field where movement begins to dance. Technicity: the art of the event.
Technique comes out of practice as much as it is what goes into practice. In this regard, techniques are hard to come by—they demand the patient ex- ploration of how a practice best comes into itself. Technicity is the dephas- ing of technique—it is the experience of technique reaching the more-than of its initial application. Technicity is a craft—it is how the field of tech- niques touches its potential. From technique to technicity we have a trans- duction. Technicity is a shift of level that activates a shift in process. This is how techniques evolve. Without transduction we would have only mimicry, translation. The copying of forms. Technicity in-gathers form toward its im- plicit potentiality and squeezes from it the drops of the excess of its actual- izations. Technicity captures the affective tonality of a process, a tendency, and catapults it toward new expression.
There are techniques for hoeing, for standing at a bus stop, for reading a philosophical text, for taking a seat in a restaurant, for being in line at a gro- cery store. In each case, the technique is both singular and general. There are cultural differences between modes of waiting in line, but all standing in line carries a certain number of general identifiers such as an implicit understanding that only one person can be served at one time. There are of course also techniques in a seed’s germination, in the shift of the Earth’s axis toward the Sun, and in the process of photosynthesis. And there are techniques that build on techniques—techniques for bowing the violin in-
clude implicit modes of standing as well as techniques for arm movement or wrist inflection; techniques for painting include implicit modes of see- ing as well as techniques for manipulating light or texture; techniques for dance include implicit understandings of equilibrium as well as techniques for locating and moving rhythm and extension.
William Forsythe shows his dancers that, for instance, you can lift an arm across the body by using the extension of the limb, creating a standard épaulement. Building technique on technique, however, he then shows that the amplitude of this movement’s qualitative force is fundamentally altered through a movement of the rib cage. Instead of pulling the arm, push the rib cage and the body becomes a diagonal force, a torque, hip-shoulder syncing with an elasticity that dances almost without effort. The first option is a movement from the pretense of a stability. The second is a movement- moving. This is technique building on technique.
Something else is happening here as well. A technicity is developing that draws on the diagonal force of a moving body. Suddenly ribs become fin- gers, and shoulders become articulate. Forsythe explains: “When you move your shoulder, you can move it as expressively as the hand—the shoulder is the second most expressive part after the hand—the muscles over the rib are the serratus—they are like the finger ligaments going up the hand. Ar- ticulate your shoulder from the serratus.”2 When shoulder becomes quality of hand, organ becomes expression. The body acts in implicit relation with a movement that tunes to a different constellation of articulation. Body be- comes bodying, and in this transduction, a series of new potentialities for movement are born. Think technique as that which perfects a system and technicity as that through which a process is born that composes the more- than that is the body’s movement ecology.
Technicity is the associated milieu of technique. If technique is the learn- ing of a certain kind of reach, a certain kind of pull or turn or spiral, if tech- nique is the sounding of a voice or the rhythmic assertion of a step, tech- nicity is the operational field of its expressivity. This field is co-imbricating. It is a lively interval, energized with all of the forces of movement-moving. The role of technique in the field of technicity is to create the potential for a singularity of forms to mutate toward a generative process. Technique is key because of its rigorous method of experimentation and repetition, a method that allays any passivity in the passage from the form of experi- mentation to its force. Technicity—the associated milieu where form once more becomes force, where individual gesture becomes individuation—is
the process through which the implicit is acted upon to generate something as yet unthought.
The associated milieu of technicity is never given in advance, never con- ditioned before a process is under way. It is the event’s process, never its mediation. Technicity is the field of incorporation in the making of tech- nique’s insistent difference and repetition. “The taking-form does not ac- complish itself visibly in a single instant, but in a number of successive operations. We cannot strictly distinguish the taking-form from the quali- tative transformation” (Simondon 2005, 57). Technicity sets the conditions for successive operations, each of which incorporates the implicit, creating an opening toward an ecology of experimentation. It multiplies the form that “is but a fabricated intention, with a flighty disposition, [that] can neither grow old or become” toward an intensity that will always resist cap- ture, but that will nonetheless leave its trace. Technicity is an open field for structured improvisation. It in-forms a process of taking-form, gathering from that process the myriad levels of information. In doing so, it reminds us that form is in-formation, at once a complex tending-toward that mo- mentarily resolves as this or that, and the incipient nextness of a future- pastness.
Improvisation is not born of technicity, however. Technique is its grounding. It is born, paradoxically, through the repetition of a certain form-taking. Without the rigor and precision that comes of repeated, ha- bitual activity, improvisation’s potential vocabulary is too narrow, its im- plicit force too backgrounded to be functionally emergent. To create the new it is vital to have experimented with the outer limits of a vocabulary that is highly technical, and from there, but transversally, to invent. This in- vention takes place in the associated milieu—it is not I who invent but the bodying process itself, across the activity of movement-moving. Remember that the associated milieu is the environmentality of the technique in its de- phasing, the field where technique and technicity meet.
In the realm of the political, the question of technicity extends to the how of collective enunciation. How is a collaborative event orchestrated? What modes of process are created to ensure that difference can be heard without succumbing to the endgame of debate? How to tweak collective individuation to give the group a voice that allows something to be said that is more-than individual, that carries within it the germs of a multiplicitous individuality? How to operate at the level of collective invention in the tense of the not-yet, at the very edges where thought and practice meet? How to
orchestrate a collective bodying—a society, in the Whiteheadian sense— that crafts its process from the very ecology that constitutes it, that merges technique with the more-than of its potential, finding within technique the implicit force that propels technique toward the excess of form or position? Take the 2009 SenseLab event, Society of Molecules.3 The goal of Society of Molecules was to find techniques that would allow a large group (between sixty and one hundred people) from multiple countries to connect in the creation of an aesthetico-political event. This event was to occur in many countries at once and so would have to work without a gathering in the form of a face-to-face encounter. The problem was how to distribute self- organizing creative energies while operatively interconnecting them at a distance. How to connect not simply at the level of content but also at the
level of process?
This event had a lead-up of a year, during which “molecules” were cre- ated across the world. Molecules were defined as a group of seven to ten people who would take on a collective project. This collective project was defined as a local event that would creatively address a politico-aesthetic issue felt by local participants to affect the quality of their lives. The politico- aesthetic interventions would last between three hours and seven days and take place during the first week of May 2009.
The early stages of the event were steeped in practices from earlier col- lective organizing: we read assigned texts, we created an Internet hub for concept invention, we collectively thought about the relation between art and politics, and we worked locally to develop ideas for our own molecular projects. Then we began to conceive of specific techniques for the larger dis- tributed event, always with a focus on developing affective strategies that would allow us to connect at the level of our processes rather than focusing exclusively on content and thereby falling into the trap of “reporting.” Three techniques were invented.
The first was the technique of the “emissary.” Each molecule was invited to choose an emissary as well as to name a host. The emissary of each local grouping was paired with the host of another group. Sometime in the five months preceding the main event, the emissary would travel to the host group (virtual voyages were a possibility where resources did not allow physical travel). The role of the emissary was to make “first contact” with the other local (molecular) culture. To facilitate the unannounced meet-
ing, “movement profiles” were compiled and distributed to the emissaries. The movement profiles described the designated host’s habitual daily move-
ments through the city, so that if the emissary so desired first contact could be made in a performative fashion taking advantage of the element of sur- prise.4 Emissaries were encouraged to use standard forms of communi- cation like mobile phones and addresses sparsely, focusing instead being guided by the movement profile. Upon meeting, the host’s job was to gather the molecule together and treat the emissary to a “relational soup.”
The second technique involved collectively composing a recipe for the re- lational soup that would then be brought back to the “home” molecule. The relational soup could be anything at all. The enabling constraint was that whatever form it took, it should give the emissary a taste of that group’s process.
The third technique took the form of a “process seed” brought by the emissary and left with the host group. The seed was sealed and was to be opened only after the event. It could be an object around which a future group activity could be organized or a set of procedures to be followed col- lectively.
The hope was that the techniques would activate a technicity that might orient the process in ways previously unimaginable. While there was a definite moment of aesthetico-political intervention (May 1–7, 2009), the emphasis of these techniques concerned both the specificity of the local events and what could be generated over time that might continue to feed a growing political process. Because the force of technicity is not measur- able, there can be no “result” to such an event. How thoughts continue to resonate, how aesthetico-political practices created for local constituencies continue to evolve both actually and virtually—these are questions of tech- nicity, and as such they remain open. What can be said with certainty is that it is possible to create an environment that tends to the political in creative and unforeseen ways, and it is possible for techniques to breed into tech- nicities that far outlive their local enunciations. Collective individuation in the realm of the aesthetico-political takes careful crafting, but it can have important effects on the field of the political.
Paired with the careful crafting of technique, improvisation can play an important role as an emergent procedure for the creation of new associated milieus of relation, milieus that subvert the linear time of if-then. What improvisation can do is texture technique to flesh out its potential. It does so by making “if” an open question, a time-loop, a folding proposition for the moving. From habit to invention, from technique to improvisation, the form becomes a folding-through of time in the making. The time of the if
becomes an if . . . if . . . that lands only long enough to transduce, to in- gather the potential of the coming individuation toward the force of its already passing future becoming.
Technique remains here as the tool for the crafting of the movement’s excessive share, of the more-than of form it continuously leaves behind. At this juncture of invention, technique, improvisation, and technicity are at close quarters—each builds on the other. In the SenseLab’s Society of Mole- cules, the technique may have been to collectively make a relational soup. And perhaps the decision was to follow conventions and buy vegetables at the market to actually make a soup. But once at the market there may be the sense that the newly formed group (molecule + emissary) is somehow already in the process of crafting this relational intervention. Perhaps it’s best not to cut this process by going home and beginning to cook? Perhaps a picnic on the sidewalk is a better option? And then, in retrospect, perhaps the relational soup wasn’t even the picnic but the movement improvisation that momentarily came to life in the market-gathering? Perhaps the recipe is not a meal at all but an urban intervention? The point is that this inter- vention did not come out of nowhere. The technique was the spark that set it into motion. Improvisation then opened the movement to what it could become, unmoored. If the event was successful, it will have generated a more-than of its technique. This will have been its technicity.
It’s not about designing the “never experienced before” but about cre- ating an opening within the event for the outdoing of form. This involves a process of folding-through that activates a resonant fielding of different layers of dimensionalizing already in potentia. There is no reproducibility of technicity—it can never be generalized. Techniques, on the other hand, must to some degree be replicable—this very capacity for reproduction is what gives them their rigor.
Now think this in terms of a dancing body and consider José Gil’s con- cept of overarticulation, which can be defined at the felt experience of the form outdoing itself. In rehearsal, William Forsythe asks his dancers to think about “what it was about the position that made it motion?”5 Over- articulation is one way the technicity of movement-moving—movement be- yond position—makes itself felt. The dancing body overarticulates not by bringing content to form or form to content, but by foregrounding the vir- tual share of technicity coursing through and across its movements in the making.
Overarticulation is steeped in technique, but to make itself felt it can-
not remain on the stratum of the technical. Forsythe calls it “looking for a chain of sensations rather than a chain of positions.” Without ever refer- ring to overarticulation as such, Forsythe speaks of refraining from “hold- ing the sensation hostage to your expertise,” of making the experiential felt: “you’re dancing in order to have sensations—you’re looking for where that sensation is in your whole spectrum of dancing.” Dance from the vectors of position where position is already becoming motion, ask “how you might get the most from that closed set of permissible positions: how can I take that movement as far as it can go?”6
Overarticulation is the surging forth of the potential of a movement’s unfolding. It is the post of its preacceleration. It is the excess of the dis- placement, the making-felt of the expressive micromovements that popu- late all movements in the making. Think of the spiral as an example. A spi- ral as such cannot be danced. It is more duration than form. To spiral is to dance the future of a movement spiraling, to dance the overarticulation of the present passing. Each spiraling thus touches on the force of technicity, a technicity that can be amplified by emphasizing this tendency and com- posing with it. Take the spiral, diagonalize and torque it, “follow the curves of the body—send the curve out from the hip to the arm raising and curv- ing overhead, and note the hip is still moving when the arm is finished. Note the feeling of cross-attenuation (tendu)—find the cross patterns of the stretch—go for the feeling of the skin, the skin will tell you how to do it. Now add rotation: like an octopus who can do ballet.”7 Seek not to locate the body in the afterposition of its having spiralingly diagonalized: feel its octopus. Dwell in the octopus and move it, leaving even this multiplying bodying-form behind. Move and exfoliate, as José Gil would say (1985).8
The virtual share of movement—its technicity, its overarticulation—is not added on to the spiraling body. Technicity is made tangible by the felt experience of duration within the movement itself. When a movement be- comes habitual, its durational force is backgrounded to make space for its capitalizable economy in the time of the now. Get to the bus stop, to the coffee shop, to the store. Endpoint is everything. Everyday movements are reduced, compacted, overarticulations muted by overarching direction- ality and predimensionalizing. A dancing body, on the other hand, learns to stretch out the force of duration, to express incipience, making palpable the force of form that is movement’s procedural intensity. In the dancing, movement actualizes at the very limit of this intensity, making felt the acti- vation of its in-formation as event.
To have moved is to have overarticulated in germ. Dancing is simply one example that brings to the fore the technicity of the body’s overarticulating potential. To dance the virtual is to move while keeping alive the intervals that are the very compositions of an overarticulation that cannot be recog- nized or reproduced as such but that will feed every subsequent movement. Its mantra is “Already go to what you think is the limit, and then go fur- ther.”9
Overarticulation, as the vibratory resonance of movement’s excess—the felt surplus of its actualization—creates a field for durational movement that coexists with the timed event of movement-moving. The more precise the technicity, the more complex the field movement leaves behind and casts forth. Technicity embeds margins of indetermination across systems of technique, activating the associated milieu of emergence itself. It is the practice that invents at the very edges of composition where the composi- tion seems to have already come to its limit. To dance the virtual is to have been overarticulated as a mutating ecology that continuously moves beyond position. To dance the virtual is to have straddled the interval between tech- nique and technicity, to have danced the immanent futurity of movement in the making.