time we will once more have the experience of following the soldiers walk- ing up the stairs into the city, under the posters of Bashir, into the crowds of mourning women, a repetition framed, always, by the face.
The repeated scene of the bodies rising out of the water begins as a prom- ise: it looks like a flashback. As with all flashbacks, we are lulled into the feeling that there will be a denouement, that the scene will grow into its content rather than withdraw, again and again, into the expressionless face. Coming as it does soon after the first scene—the dreamscape of amber- gray-black dogs barking, of violence on the cusp of playing itself out, the city caught in a web of fear—we assume that this scene of bodies emerg- ing from water will hold the key to the missing facts that memory holds at bay. We are almost certain the scene will provide the clues to the Sabra and Shatila massacre, that the rising bodies moving into the amber-gray night of war will let us know how the repressed returns.3
But the repressed does not return.4 We are witnesses not to the victims of truths now uncovered, but to sheets of experience exposing at once the singular horror of the Sabra and Shatila massacre and the impossibility of containing it within an explanatory narrative. What returns is not the past but the future, the ineffable more-than. And toward this future is the figure of the face, the face we can never fall into, the face that resists affective recognition, the face that leads us incessantly across, onto the surface of an imagescape that folds, twists, undoes and re-creates itself at the complex intersection where life-living comes to expression.
Despite how haunted we are by the face and its reappearance—especially when we realize that it is the face of Ari Folman, the soldier, filmmaker, memory-driver of the film—the face never sticks. The face does not produce the interiority for the film, does not become the center as the affective image around which the narration turns. It appears and disappears, remaining flat, an impersonal surface that marks the passage from now to now, from singularity to singularity, in a deferred rhythm without preconceived con- nection, without attachment to time-as-such, without territorializing on a “personal” body. The face resists catharsis.5
Yet, at first we cannot know this, and so we are almost certain the scene of the rising bodies will provide the clues to the Sabra and Shatila massacre, that the face staring into the amber-gray night of war will let us know how the repressed returns. What we find instead is that we are witnesses to what Deleuze calls “the power of the false,” that which “replaces and supersedes the form of the true, because it poses the simultaneity of incompossible presents, or the coexistence of not-necessarily true pasts” (1989, 131). The manyness of expressibility in all of its entangled unfoldings is what is at stake here. This is why, despite appearances to the contrary, it is soon re- vealed that this is not a film “about” the Sabra and Shatila massacre, not a film that attempts to “return” to the past to resolve the massacre’s fascistic unfolding. It is a film, rather, that surfaces the complexity of time to make felt what cannot be straightforwardly resolved, a film that asks experience in the making to encounter its own uneasiness, its own ineffability in the face of the incompossibility of truth.
Waltz with Bashir (2008) is an animated film about living memory, about life’s opening onto memory as forgetting, about the impossibility of mem- ory’s causal narration, about the ineffability of violence’s containment within the frame. It is a drama of amber and gray-black that leaks onto all memory-surfaces, until it ends, finally, on the blues and grays of archival documentation with one startling image of orange, a dead girl’s body on the sandy road of the Sabra and Shatila refugee camp. Waltz with Bashir is a film replete with singularities that do not add up, that cross over into sheets of experience that cannot ever manage to tell the whole story, once and for all, the story of how memory and war coincide.
The Face
Waltz with Bashir is about how the virtual plane—what Deleuze (1990) calls the metaphysical surface—of the film brings life back not as a human face, not as a past converted into a present, but as a movement across. By pre- senting the face in its withdrawing from the imagescape, Waltz with Bashir creates a tight circuit between what presents itself and what remains vir- tual, returning us to the image’s own movement, to the affective tonality of the imagescape’s haunting amber-black-gray, creating an opening for what Deleuze calls a life, the barely active stirrings of life at the limit. To bring a life to the fore, the human face must remain deterritorialized, collective: when territorialized on a “personal” body of the individual, the face too strongly proposes a territory, an interiority. In Waltz with Bashir, the face that returns, the impassive face of the soldier/filmmaker, is felt as the surface of its own collectively transient becoming. It does not overcome. It is a life, affective resonance in the intensive passage between surfaces of experience. A life, Deleuze reminds us, happens not through transcendence but on the tran- scendental field itself. “Whenever immanence is attributed to subject and object, which themselves fall outside the plane [of immanence], the subject being taken as universal, and the object as any object whatsoever, we wit- ness a denaturing of the transcendental. . . . And we witness a distortion of immanence, which is now contained in the transcendent” (2007, 389). A life is immanence felt in the stirrings of actualization. Force of potential, force of life.
The characters in Waltz with Bashir are faces, but faces as flat surfaces, as markers for the force of fabulation, a telling poised at the limit of articula- tion, a telling, as one character explains, of a past “not in my system.” Fabu- lation is about the event, the event of time: fabulation is not the telling of a narrative in the form of the “what was,” but the expression of “the act of legending.” This act creates not a truth but an opening onto the aberrant movement of time where the surface of the film itself begins to “fiction,” to “legend” or fabulate, where the character (the surface) begins to “fabulate without ever being fictional” and where the filmmaker cannot but “‘inter- cede himself ’ from the real characters who wholly replace his own fiction through their own fabulations” (Deleuze 1989, 150; translation modified). What emerges via the face in Waltz with Bashir are stories fabulating them- selves, creating themselves in the merging of events that do not constitute a clear continuity, events replete with fantasy and dream, reconstruction
and confusion.6 “Do you recognize this picture?” the filmmaker asks. “No,” the impassive face responds. “Was I always there?” he asks another. “Yes.” The impassivity of the faces of the characters as they relay their selective memories tinged with forgetting invites a moving-across into the texture of memory itself. The telling does not sink into the myth of an attainable past. It moves through events in the making, creating a collective surface for the telling. In the fabulation that ensues, the face resists empathy at any per- sonal, individual level. For the face here is not the locus of human expres- sion. The face is the metaphysical surface through which events pass. The movement of the events of the film bubbles at its impassive surface, inviting us to move across into the collective event that is the imagescape itself. We cannot get inside the faces, so we move across their surfaces into the texture of the becoming-image, the becoming-image of a forgetting that is all but a past uncovered. Shards of meaning coincide, but no ultimate meaning is re- vealed. Waltz with Bashir is a web of futures in the making more than a depth of remembrance, once and for all. What we see is not the past bubbling to the surface but life itself active in the immanence of the future-arising, a life on the verge of appearance at the very intersection where immanence tran- scends itself and merges with the actuality of the ineffable.
A life is how the drama of the political expresses itself in Waltz with Bashir. It is Nietzsche’s (1967, 157) “Was that life? Well then! Once more!” and Mas- sumi’s (2010a, 2011b) “bare activity.” It is the force of agitation that pushes the virtual to the limit, the dark precursor that propels the doubling of tran- scendence and immanence into the pure experience of the now.7 It is the ac- tivity of the metaphysical surface, and, as such, it is the force of expression of the transcendental field.
The concept of the transcendental field radically challenges standard notions of transcendence. Where transcendence relies on the already- existent platform of spacetimes of experience in order to overcome them, the transcendental field is a preindividual topological surface that spurs aberrant movements out of which spacetimes are created anew, aberrant because there can never be a preimposed path for how life can and will emerge.8
A transcendental field can never be known as such. But it can be felt through the singular series—the lives—that bring it momentarily into ap- pearance: “Singularities are the real transcendent events, and Ferlinghetti calls them ‘the fourth person singular.’ . . . Only when the world, teaming with anonymous and nomadic, impersonal and preindividual singularities,
opens up, do we tread at last on the field of the transcendental” (Deleuze 1990, 103).
Waltz with Bashir’s relentless imagescape of amber-gray-black steers us into an uneasy realm. It does not give us anything to hold onto. It pushes us across. It forces us to think, as Deleuze would say, pushing thought to the beyond where it is no longer about content but about the creation of move- ments of thought. Thought in its bare activity, thought at the cusp where it merges with feeling.
Forcing thought to its limit where the thinking and the feeling are one, Waltz with Bashir activates a protopolitics that merges, uncertainly, with the politics the film can never get beyond, pushing the political to its limit, a limit from which it returns—if it returns—as the dramatic image of its own bare activity, broken into shards of light, amber-gray. There is no face to latch onto, no expression to empathize with, and so we keep moving. Waltz with Bashir proposes more than it provides, offering affective tonality before content, providing color and force of form before it gives us a figure, a body as such. Waltz with Bashir thus propels us across the infrahuman topologi- cal surface of the image, forcing us to think not simply what but how—what surfaces is also how it surfaces.
What—as allied to Being—is the question of transcendence, the question of interiority and depth, while how—as allied to process, or becoming—is the question of the transcendental field. There are no questions that cannot be dangerous in their own right, that are protected from returning to habits of thought, but there are few starting points as lethal as the totalitarianism of Being: “I” is a habit, and where it leads is toward the supremacy of the human.9 Being and the human-as-supreme cannot be disengaged, and with the human at the center, the frame is unequivocably in place for the eclips- ing of the complexity of other ecologies, of other surfaces of experience.
Foregrounding the metaphysical surface as the how of experience in the making opens the way for a different proposition. For how does not delimit a field according to preexisting parameters: it opens it to its outside, to the out- side as it curves back in on the topological surface that never quite contains it. How brings us back to the protopolitical and the dark precursor that is its movement of thought, to politics at the very cusp of its appearance, at the bare edge of its agitation. How does not guarantee against the return of fas- cism or the microfascist tendencies the political can and does call forth. But it at least offers an opening onto the potential of a forking, onto a life welling at the winding surface that is the singular limit between now and now.10
The Ineffable