And, to the physics of surfaces a metaphysical surface necessarily corresponds. Metaphysical surface (transcendental field ) is the name that  will be given to the frontier established, on the one hand, between bodies taken together as a whole and inside the limits which envelop them. And on the other, propositions in general. This frontier implies, as we shall  see, certain properties of sound in relation to the surface, making possible thereby a distinct distribution of language and bodies, or of the corporeal depth and the sonorous continuum. In all these respects, the surface is the transcendental field itself, and the locus of sense and expression. (Deleuze 1990, 125)
The transcendental field filters into experience as the virtual agitation of life welling. It is not yet delineated into subject or object: it moves intensively across, preindividually, aberrantly creating remarkable points that emerge, eventually, as the subjects and objects of the next now. It resonates with these singular events of becoming, propelling series into actualities that carry with them the germ of its intensive surface.
The transcendental field in Waltz with Bashir expresses itself as the emer- gent surface that is the repeated and varied contrast of amber-gray-black. This contrast is felt as a field of resonance where color becomes sonorous continuum—its surface the rhythm for the seeing-hearing of a life coursing through. While the amber-gray-black returns, always, in moments of recol- lection, it is not the content of the scenes that feeds forward from the tran- scendental field but the quality, the rhythm, the resonance, of the image- scape itself. The imagescape pulses through, pushing forward and across, moving us with it, resonating with the unseen, the ineffable, the forgetting at the heart of memory, the forgetting at whose limit life begins to bubble to the surface.
Never conscious of itself, the transcendental field is the qualitative dura- tion of the without-me of relation, of life-living. Radically empirical, it emerges, barely, at the interval of feeling and felt. When we feel it, what we feel is the cut of the interval, the between of its singular appearance here and now. In Waltz with Bashir we feel this quality of the active interstice in the intensive surfacing of amber-gray-black, we feel it in the resonant field cre- ated by the contrast of the bright and the dull, we feel it as the intersection where the impossibility of strategically coupling then and now expresses itself. Throughout Waltz with Bashir, we are never really out of this interval—
we never rest in the amber-gray-black. Its stark contrast moves us each time anew, reminding us that the past cannot be doubled onto the present, that what emerges appears in the multiple now of life in the making, of life fabu- lating.
Sheets of the present move at various rhythms, creating different so- norous continuums and affective tonalities, and with them come different resonant fields. Take the scene between the filmmaker and Ori, the friend- therapist.11 In stark departure from the gray-amber-black tones of the earlier scenes of the film, this scene, in which Ori describes a memory experiment, is in greens and pinks. The experiment is as follows: people are shown pic- tures from their childhood. They figure as children in these pictures and the events are real—they actually happened. Then, the experimenters give them a false image. This image still has them as the protagonist but the environ- ment is invented. They were never really there. As Ori relates the experiment to the filmmaker, the scene shifts to a child in an amusement park, the child like a cutout in a field of clowns and Ferris wheels, all this in bright candy colors (figure 2). This is one such “not really real” image: the amusement park is not one the child ever actually visited. Eighty percent of the people who take this experiment, Ori explains, claim to have really been there when they see themselves in the picture. The remaining 20 percent—those who are unsure of whether they were really there—are invited to go home and think about it. When they return, and upon seeing the picture of “them- selves” in the amusement park once again, they “remember” the amuse- ment park. As Ori says, “memory is dynamic, it’s alive.”
This scene briefly takes us “out” of the story of war. An aside on mem- ory, it feels like a film within the film. We relax in the assumption that we are pausing outside the atrocities of war while we are being taught a lesson about the slippery quality of memory so that when we return to the “real” film, we will expect less from the “truth” of recollection. But just when we are certain that this is simply an academic exercise into the inevitability of memory’s failures, and that this scene is cast apart from the real events of the film, the scene itself begins to fabulate: a washed-out version of the amusement park scene briefly becomes the backdrop to Ori and the film- maker’s conversation, the Ferris wheel and the hot air balloon appearing in the window behind the filmmaker’s back (figure 3). The amusement park has made its way onto the surface of the now, into the story of how war and memory can never strictly coincide. Memory has already begun working its