sly tricks. The force of fabulation has once more infiltrated the transcenden- tal field of the film.
This short washed-out amusement park scene haunts the film. We see it, but they don’t—the filmmaker and Ori continue to speak about mem- ory as though nothing had happened, as though their discussion hadn’t already changed the imagescape’s course. The appearance of the amuse- ment park behind the filmmaker’s shoulder cuts into the past/future circuit he is working so desperately to unravel, bringing a new surface to a com-
plex topological field of recollections of the forgotten past and dreams of the unimagined future. And then, a few seconds later, the semblance of the amusement park gives way once more to the dreary backdrop of an outside garden, things back “as they should be.”
This instance of memory’s intrusion into the future-present will con- tinue to resonate at the edges of the film’s metaphysical surface. But, like the dogs of the first amber-gray-black scene, it never returns as such. Never again do we even see its colours—the bright pinks and greens of the clowns and the balloons. Nonetheless, this scene has altered the field, multiply- ing time’s supposed linearity. “[T]here is no other crime than time itself,” writes Deleuze (1989, 37). The amusement park image marks time/memory as aberrant movement. “What aberrant movement reveals is time as every- thing, as ‘infinite opening,’ as anteriority over all normal movement” (37). The transcendental field does not transcend time. It fields time’s cre- ation in the event. To transcend time would be to posit linear time in order to redraw time’s passage as an inside and outside of experience that moves seamlessly from past to present to future. This would assume an omnipres- ent (human) body, documenting, remembering, orchestrating, witnessing. This is transcendence, operative always on the molar stratum of experience where life appears as predefined. The metaphysical surface, on the other hand, has no preconstituted spacetime. It has virtual circuits, impossible flows, ineffable becomings, washouts, active always on the molecular stra- tum where life is still in the making. Events as they come to expression merge with this metaphysical surface in infinitely dynamic ways. Dynamic events are full of holes, or better, of folds. They propel subjects and objects into the world, but they are not presupposed by them. Actively emergent from the transcendental field of experience, events do not create form once and for all, they create openings for the force of a taking-form. This is mem-
ory: the dynamic force of life-living in the uneasy forming.
Transcendence builds memory from without, feeding the past “fully- formed” into the container of the present. To transcend spacetime is to move outside spacetime to force a mode of life on living. Transcendence cleaves morally, separating fields of experience into representations of good and evil. It is a back-gridding procedure that creates a totality, a totali- tarian, tautological experience.12 The transcendental field, by contrast, has no direction except toward the event,and no form in itself—it folds into the event forming.
Desiring Surfaces
Let’s return to the first scene of the film. The only dream in the film, this first scene is strangely disconnected from every other event, and yet its surface quality imbues all future imagescapes. This scene creates the mood of the film, its contrast, color, and affective tone. For two minutes we move to the threatening rhythm of twenty-six dogs, their growls and panting in tandem with the synthesized sound of drums mixed with aggressive barking, the image finally centering on an amber sky, a gray building, a lone, distant face at a window looking out onto the street.13 Moving alongside the dogs, our gait is one of horizontality, a threatening movement across, relentless, from now to now to now.14 Never is there a clear sense of the status of this now. The now is always moving. The movement is before, behind, and across, and we move with it, horizontalizing the topological surface of pure experience. The dogs surround us on this horizontalizing plane even as we move with them, following them in their fight to the death. In this terrifying moving surround, we see amber eyes as placeholders of certain versions of events; we experience the mobilization of discrete singularities, and yet nothing stays still as we at once participate in and fear the mobile surface, the ab- stract surface of the amber-gray-black that continuously moves across (see figure 4).15
As the opening scene gives way to future amber-gray-black scenes of memory and forgetting, we become somewhat distanced from the horror of the dogs. But the dogs have set the tone and we cannot but feel that, in the end, there is no distance, no break in the movement-across, only the sem- blance of a strange, detached calm.16
This uneasy movement between surfacings, topological and horizontal, between affective tonalities, lull and anguish, between calm and agitation, terror and beauty, is active, always, in the contrast, amber-gray-black. The amber-gray-black is a backdrop that is never strictly a background, forcing the viewer into a continued seeing-feeling across strata: we are drawn into a backgrounding-foregrounding resonance, we are lulled by the warmth of the amber but cannot tear ourselves away from the nightmare of the inky black, the threatening night sky, the destroyed world of gray asphalt. And so with each return of the amber-gray-black, a version of the dogs returns, their eyes amber, their fur gray, the sky amber, the streets gray, their sound amber-gray-black, the sonorous continuum resonant on the mobile surface of the imagescape.