The amber-gray-black is the fourth person singular, as Ferlinghetti calls it. It is the desiring machine that moves us across the surface of the image, not so much feeding the narrative as fuelling the intensive absence of a lin- ear reminiscence. It promises no mimicry of itself, no representation, no absolute recognition, no ultimate tying of loose ends. It keeps us poised at the limit, that edge where terror haunts the image. This edge is never tran- scended. It remains the affective tonality of what cannot be expressed: the transcendental field of a micropolitics in the making.
The fourth person singular is not “I.” It is a desiring machine that cuts across: “desire, by its very nature, always has the tendency to ‘leave the sub- ject’ and to drift” (Guattari 1977a, 49; my translation). A desiring machine is a machine in the sense that it cuts, assembles, produces. It creates desire, and more desire, pushing the surface to the limits of its desiring poten- tial. In Waltz with Bashir the desiring machine of the film creates an opening for transversal linkages without giving the fabulation moral standing, for desiring machines are “machinic montages that bring into conjunctions semiotic chains and an intercrossing of material and social fluxes” (Guat- tari 1977a, 54; my translation), never situating them strictly on the side of good or evil. Desiring machines only propel: they promise nothing. They create openings, intervals, fluxes of potential relation. They propose. They risk. And they move.
The fourth person singular is the protagonist of Waltz with Bashir, a pro- tagonist that flirts with microfascisms of pure reminiscence as much as
with the impossibility of activating the past in the present, a protagonist that cannot be resolved or recognized as such. Like all topological surfaces, the fourth person singular does not promise resolution. It desires folds. It assembles singularities. It is nomadic. “What is neither individual nor per- sonal are, on the contrary, emissions of singularities insofar as they occur on an unconscious surface and possess a mobile, immanent principle of auto-unification through nomadic distribution, radically distinct from fixed and sedentary distributions as conditions of the syntheses of conscious- ness” (Deleuze 1990, 102).
The dogs are an example of a desiring machine. They are a multiplicity that moves across experience in the making. They drive the film: they are relentless impetus, movement-across at the topological surface of mem- ory and dreams. As such, they are markers, remarkable points not for the transcendence of the past—the unraveling of memory, the locating of its source—but for the future anterior, the becoming of the “it was” of the “not yet.” They are desiring machines for a potential to come. We never know what they can do.
Waltz with Bashir thus begins off-kilter, the amber-gray of the dogs mov- ing into the ineffable event of memory’s desire. Memory crashes along the surface. It gallops, its claws scratching into the dark gray parchment to re- veal not the surface’s depth but its present scarring. Yet memory can create new forms. The metastable quality of its movement-across is replete with its urge for transcendence. Desire can go both ways. This is the danger: that memory will fight to the death for recognition of itself as pure past, that it will create its own vortex of transcendence, that it will seek the hole of putrid history, creating new microfascisms in the making with the frenzy of vicious dogs out for revenge. This is totalitarianism at work. It stops thought.17
Anything that flirts with transcendence risks totalitarianism. And while fascism and totalitarianism do not strictly collude, fascism is seduced by the aura of transcendent truth that is situated in the myth of a past, fully formed. Fascism produces singularities that retell stories of belonging, that create regressive attachments. It tells dark stories as though they happened in the light of day and repeats these stories, creating doctrines from them. Fascism predicts the ending and moves toward it, suicidally. The quest is re- gressively circular. The search for the past that never was cannot but create the self-destruction of presents in the making. Waltz with Bashir flirts with each of these tendencies but in the end I think it resists them. Uneasily, out
of joint, it proposes something quite different from the microfascisms that lure it: an uncertain field, a memory that leads nowhere but to its dynamic futurity.18