At the Limit: Folding Surfaces
“The living lives at the limit of itself, on its limit” (Simondon qtd. in Deleuze 1990, 104). The impassive face that culminates the scene of the men rising out of the water marks a limit. This limit is not a boundary. It is a cleav- age, an interval that opens back onto the surface of the film’s imagescape. The face that creates no interiority haunts this surface. Because we can- not hold onto this surface, because its affect does not easily translate to emotion, into a circumscribed entity, enveloping recognition into itself, because we cannot sink into it, we instead feel-with its resonant contrast, its backgrounding-foregrounding, its movement-with the limit of memory expressing itself not as content but as tonality. We feel not for the life of this human body, but for the force that cuts across it, for a life, the burgeoning of activity across surfaces of life-living. We don’t feel empathy.19 For the im- passive face calls forth a protopolitics not of personal identification but of co-constitution where what is staged is less a face-to-face encounter than an encounter with the beyond of the face, a beyond that calls everything into question including the place of the human in experience.
A life is not strictly of the human. A life is not interiority. It is pure surface. It cannot be lived as such. It moves across, its volumetric surface folding. It is pure experience, pure opening onto potential. It promises nothing.
A life is felt in Waltz with Bashir as the activity of memory’s deformation in the event’s coming to itself. It is wholly impersonal, yet singular. The dogs move through it but never come to rest in it. “It’s a haecceity, that is no longer individuation, but singularization: life of pure immanence, neutral, beyond good and evil, since only the subject that was incarnated in its midst made it good or bad” (Deleuze 1990, 361). Absolute movement. Aberrant movement. “The entire mass of living matter contained in the internal space is actively present to the external world at the limit of the living . . . to belong to interiority does not mean only to be ‘be inside’ but to be on the ‘in-side’ of the limit. . . . At the level of the polarized membrane, internal past and external future face one another” (Simondon qtd. in Deleuze 1990, 104).
Aberrant because it does not evolve in any linear sense. It changes. The surface senses not the past but its presenting, its making future of the in-
terior/exterior fold, the expression of its limit as singularity. “Singulari- ties are distributed in a properly problematic field as topological events to which no direction is attached” (Deleuze 1990, 104). How singularities re- solve into the present-passing has to do with the interval between memory and forgetting, “the memorandum which is at the same time afflicted with an essential forgetting, in accordance with that law of transcendental exer- cise which insists that what can only be recalled should also be empiri- cally impossible to recall” (Deleuze 1994, 140). The problem: “solutions are engendered at precisely the same time that the problem determines itself ” (Deleuze 1990, 121). Waltz with Bashir takes us far away from empirical mem- ory. It creates memories out of lived relations, in the relation itself. Radi- cally empirical, memory in Waltz with Bashir moves with the forgetting that is essential for the creation of a problem worth having, a problem that forces thought to the surface, across the surface.