Between the Scenes
Between the scenes, in the stark contrast of nows, Waltz with Bashir intro- duces a serial interlude: a music video. In each case, music overlays the scene, a scene imbued with paradoxes of and in time. The first of these “music videos” takes place on the “love boat”: “Then the war started and they put us on that damned ‘loveboat,’” Carmi recalls. oMD play and we are transported into the ’80s with the reminiscent tune of “Enola Gay.”23 We watch as men dance on the boat, drinking. The scene happens in a beyond of description, images unfolding without explanation for forty-five seconds. Forty-five seconds to pan in from a remote distance to a close-up of the partying on the boat. Forty-five seconds until the love boat explodes and the water turns from black to red. Forty-five seconds until Carmi speaks again: “I saw my best friends go up in flames before my eyes.” But even as we hear the voice and we see the red water, even as we attempt to situate ourselves in the between of the living room in Holland where the discussion takes place and the capsizing boat, what we actually feel is not the explosion. We feel a strange sonorous blue quiet: we watch Carmi being taken away from the scene onto the body of an immense blue water-woman, we watch as they drift together away from the love boat, their coupled bodies as blue as the blue water, the blue sky, the blue boat. And it is from this vantage point, from Carmi’s perspective, lying on the woman’s larger-than-life swimming body, that we see the exploding boat at last, that we see war planes drop
bombs, as though for the second time. And it is through his eyes (his head turned away from us) that we watch what at first we only heard, the scene turning blood-orange, bodies, boat, ocean colored by the event. With the world once more turned amber, we watch with him, his face resting on her stomach in the ocean, looking into the distance, impassive.
The music videos that appear sporadically in Waltz with Bashir are a mode of accessing the strange interval between remembering and forgetting. We feel this interval sonorously, in a strange betweenness of color and sound, in the discordant rhythm of the feeling-telling. These music videos create an eerie fissure in time, transporting us through sonorous events into the tight circuit of the virtually actual, leading us, as music can, into the af- fect of a recollection that is also of our own making. Until the voiceover returns—and it always does—we waver in the between that music can call forth, a between that places us fully in the feeling of the past, in the present. In the music video scenes this sonorous continuum overlays the film’s sur- face, multiplying the strata. The music videos play with audio-vision at the limit where the pure experience of the time-circuit vibrates, inviting us to feel the forgetting as it happens: “Transcendental memory . . . grasps that which from the outset can only be recalled, even the first time: not a con- tingent past, but the being of the past as such and the past of every time. In this manner, the forgotten thing appears in person to the memory which essentially apprehends it. It does not address memory without addressing the forgetting within memory” (Deleuze 1994, 140).
Forgetting is memory’s sonorous continuum, a sonorous continuum cre- ated through sheets of repetition—the music video, the amber-gray-black, the bodies rising out of the water—each of which is imbued with a persis- tent refrain. These are differential refrains that play on repetition with a dif- ference: Bach’s Piano Concerto no. 5 repeats three times, Schubert’s sonata is replayed in different versions throughout the film, the amber-gray-black returns again and again, yet each is interpolated with the surfacing image- scapes such that they are never exactly the same twice. The sonorous con- tinuum resonates in the circuit of time folding in on itself.
Memory as forgetting poses a problem that cannot be worked out in a lin- ear fashion, a problem that is not so much its content than its persistent re- frain, its persistent difference. The problem of memory is its affect, the way affect resides both here and there, in the play of sensation of time’s shifting surface. To remember we have to forget the what of memory and shift to the how of its strange vibrating surface. To remember, as Nietzsche reminds
us, we must forget. Otherwise we fall into the clutches of the transcendent traps of nostalgia, guilt, and resentment that is memory’s “what,” mem- ory’s tight grasp on the containment of a unique capsule that promises to move through time unchanged. This is not how Waltz with Bashir plays with memory. Through the music video, Waltz with Bashir brings memory to life in the resonance of the sonorous now of forgetting. It tells a story in sheets of affect, a story that never quite fits together, where events are more like hyperlinks than continuities in linear time. In Waltz with Bashir, to remem- ber is to activate an interval for forgetting that folds across the metaphysical surface at the limit where the future-passing unravels. Memory thus tunes toward actuality, making felt forgetting’s sonorous continuum, “the locus of sense and expression,” sonorous in the sense that it is a direct experience of time as rhythm, a pure rhythmic image of sensation (Deleuze 1990, 125). This limit where forgetting meets the event is where sense “doubles up,” creating “the production of surfaces, their multiplication and their con- solidation” (125).
If memory is trapped in an air-tight cell of linear narrative, its consolida- tion will create black holes, traps of depth where resentment colludes with the nostalgia and guilt of the “if only.” In Waltz with Bashir the music video interrupts this tendency, pushing us into forgetting’s divergent strata, dis- tracting us as the amusement park did, feeding the imagescape forward toward more, more-than.
Deleuze calls forgetting the “nth power of memory” (1994, 140). For- getting is how memory expresses itself in the event of the now. Without the nth power, without forgetting as the dark precursor of memory in the making, memory risks falling into transcendence, into the infinitely regres- sive search for meaning. This brings with it a nihilist will to power that holds to preimposed associations and recognitions, making  superficial links between a preconstructed then and now, bridging regression into a linear flow. Such nihilism holds onto the past as though it could be trans- ported fully-formed into the present, as though it could be known as such, and re-creates the present in its image. Then, it polices this image, holding it to its unchanging self. The Being of the what. The music video in Waltz with Bashir subverts this tendency. The love boat fades into the impossibility of remembering, drifting into the amber-gray foreground of the ineffable as it moves across the shifting surface of the future-passing.
The second music video begins with a man walking onto the beach hold- ing a gun. Looking straight at the camera, the sun rising, the soldier takes
his gun and uses it to play air guitar to the tune of Cake’s “Beirut,” the words altered from its original “I Bombed Korea.”21 This scene as it un- folds is a provocative replay of the beginning of Apocalypse Now. In this, the most obvious of the music video series, the no-time of military downtime is foregrounded, making the crystal of time felt, riffing as it does on the un- assignable limit where the virtual and the actual coincide, “each playing the role of the other” (Deleuze 2007, 149; translation modified). We are thirty- six minutes into the film and have just taken part in the telling of an event replete with the terror of war and watched as a lone soldier swims to safety under the threat of air raids. “I didn’t do enough,” he says. “I wasn’t the hero type who carries weapons and saves everyone’s life.” And after that, music, and the image of planes crashing, boys surfing. No obvious connection to the previous dark black-amber scene of the soldier’s almost-drowning, of the broken soldier who will never have done enough. Instead, blue-green water, gray-yellow sky and sand, plans being made for the massacre of Sabra and Shatila by commanders eating breakfast while talking on the phone, games of beach badminton being played in the distance. “I bombed Sidon today,” the music croons as bombs fall like stars from the sky and a sol- dier makes sunny-side-up eggs on a hot metal remnant of a bombed-out car. Half-naked men surf. “I almost went home in a coffin,” the music con- tinues, the soldiers’ arms raised up in a dance of victory or renunciation as they run into the star-studded sky. And then, as quickly as it emerged, the music video fades back into the piecing together of forgetting, back to the voiceover and the impassive face. The surface moves again.
The next music video is of a completely different order. It is subtle and graceful, with Bach’s Concerto no. 5 overlaying a surreal scene of soldiers walking in slow motion through a forest, their fatigues melding into the dappled green of the leaves, their faces impassive in a tense atmosphere of fear. Juxtaposed to the previous music video of macho images of men surf- ing and killing to rock music, this music video plays on the uneasy silence where beauty and terror coincide. For one minute, we watch as soldiers move very slowly, their guns poised, their bodies tense, while in the back- ground, juxtaposed to the slowness of the soldiers’ movement, we catch a quick glimpse of two children crouching under trees, running from one hideout to another, looking for the perfect aim. And then, still in slow mo- tion, one of the children launches a missile and we watch as it moves slowly, slowly, through the two straight lines of soldiers walking toward us, target- ing the tank behind them. The missile inches in flight between them, Bach’s