Becoming-Body
Intensity of feeling in Waltz with Bashir emerges on the volumetric surface of the becoming-body, the sensing body in movement, of the film itself. This becoming-body resists the quintessential sensitive surface by refus- ing to territorialize on the human face, except, perhaps, at the last scene, where the animation gives way to documentary footage. In this amodal field of experience, the becoming-body as surface is its own intensive mul- tiple movement-across. It resists moving into a body, a personalized human body. It remains instead a biogram on the transcendental field’s topologi- cal surface.
That the film moves between bodies in becoming, shaping the emer- gence of a life not as body but as biogram,24 does not suggest that it disre- gards the body. Quite the contrary. The biogram of the film makes Waltz with Bashir all about the body, all about the intensity of life welling. What Waltz with Bashir resists is the subjectification of this body, the stultification of this personal experience as mapped through the recognition of the face as the quintessential affective image. At the limit of the now of events diverging where sense and memory coincide in an active forgetting, the becoming- body is an attractor for the creation of nodes of resonance, of sonorous continuums where a face has not yet congealed. This is why the face in Waltz with Bashir eludes us. It is not yet fully-formed. Until the last scene.
The biogram of Waltz with Bashir is a moving of preindividual life across the folds of the surface of experience in the making. The becoming-body as biogram plays at the interstice of individuation and singularity, trembling on the resonant circuit of the virtual/actual now of pure experience, ap- pearing as a tonal difference that pushes the narrative along: the body not as content but as crystal of potential. The biogram constitutes not a unique body, but a body-emergent across series, the force of life that can never return to the body as One. Force of life: where life is not yet individual or person but collective individuation. Here, where the actual and the virtual coincide in a tight circuit, there is no morality, there is only life-living, a life. Morality belongs to the discourse of individualized politics where perpe- trators and victims are identified not as bodies in the making but as fully-
formed nodes of a politics already constituted, a politics that transcends the now of experience.
“Bare activity” is the term Brian Massumi gives to the politics-in-germ of the becoming-body. Politics-in-germ bubbles on the preindividual level as the singularly-felt edging into life-living of the body-becoming. Bare ac- tivity is not biopower. It is the biogrammatic tendency of an edging into bodyness, of the surface welling into a singularity across series. “Bio- power’s ‘field of application’ according to Foucault is a territory, grasped from the angle of its actually providing liveable conditions for an existing biological being. [Bare activity] operates on a proto-territory tensed with a compelling excess of potential which renders it strictly unliveable” (Massumi 2009a, 167). On the edge of the liveable: a life.
A life percolates. Unlike some of Waltz with Bashir’s critics, we must not mistake “a life” with the life of the filmmaker, overlaying it with Ari Folman or with a generalized version of the Israeli or the Palestinian body. This is not what churns at the edges of the film. A life is the bare activity of the sur- face folding, of the background foregrounding. A life pushes through the plane of immanence, always on the verge of appearing, making itself felt, but never “as such.” Beyond good and evil. Protopolitical, preindividual, a life shapes the sensing surface. We are caught by it, but only peripherally, for it has always already moved beyond in a welling of a new proto-territory. It is activation on the edge “at [the] intensive limit of life” (Massumi 2009a, 170). It is the waltz in Waltz with Bashir.
The waltz: Two men crouched on the edge of a road in a gray, shelled cityscape fight over a gun in the midst of heavy artillery. Imminent danger all around: soldiers shoot wildly, their anguish palpable. The sky is amber against the gray of the buildings and the dusty asphalt. We see fire in the distance. The soldier rises, the gun he has now managed to get a hold of at his side. We watch, tense, as the soldier moves into the suicidal path of bombs and bullets. The sound of a Chopin waltz playing in the background intensifies. The soldier begins to cross the street to the rhythm of the music in a three-step all the while firing the gun into the air. Five seconds, ten seconds, the image focused on his feet, one-two-three, one-two-three, the bullet casings falling around him as he continues to shoot into the sky. We hear a gunshot whizzing by but the soldier’s seemingly invincible body is the only one the image cares about, the imagescape dancing with him amid the gun-flame amber in the gray-light surround. As the waltz gains in speed,
the casings continue to pollute the earth around him and the image turns and turns, waltzing with the soldier as the sky darkens, its amber shadows intensifying in step with the image’s focus in on the soldier’s tight circle, one-two-three, one-two-three. Twenty seconds.
And then the voiceover returns to address what is happening. But, simi- larly to the earlier music videos, this scene cannot be explained, cannot be comprehended. And so our attention remains focused on the soldier’s movement, his becoming-body dancing, a life quivering to the surface (see figure 6).
As the soldier’s dance comes to an end, the image is taken over by the larger-than-life poster of Bashir’s face, gazing offscreen, pockmarked with bullet holes. We sense a shift: from the micropolitics of the waltz to the macropolitics of everything Bashir represents as the recently elected presi- dent, as the murdered Phalangist leader, as the dark precursor to a war al- ready in the making. Bashir’s face, larger than life, takes over the screen until we are looking straight at him, another face that eludes us, that will not look at us. But this is less an impassive face than a face uninterested in us: Bashir’s gaze is turned away, turned to the prelude, perhaps, of the Sabra and Shatila massacre, a massacre we will not fully see, directly connect to, or ever fully comprehend. Sixteen seconds with Bashir’s face looking away, a nonmerging with its extensive surface, the macropolitical surface of the Lebanon war.
What is the status of Bashir’s face, filling the screen? How does this face that refuses to face us coincide with the incessant return of the impassive face that looks straight at us? What kind of circuit does Bashir’s face super- imposed on the anguished waltz of the mad soldier create?
Bashir’s face is not unexpressive, but nor is it engaged. It looks off into a distance that cannot be fathomed—we cannot see what he sees. Here is a proposition: Bashir’s face creates the initial delimitation of a territory.25 This territory is where the massacre will take place: it is a specific place with a date and a history and an aftermath. Bashir gazes toward the macropoliti- cal, his gaze directed toward the transcendent unity that is the State, the unity from which he derives the power to make decisions such as who is in- cluded and excluded from the realm of the political. And yet his face is not there—it is here, here in the dance, here in the vertigo where the macro and the micro coincide, where the affective tonality of a life coursing through this life makes itself felt.
Bashir’s face marks the passage from the abstract plane of experience