6. Ari Folman, Waltz with Bashir, 2008
where memory and war collide without coinciding (the soldier’s face) to the plane of organization where war proliferates as the actual violence of destruction. The soldier and Bashir’s face: an uneasy pairing of bare activity and representation dancing at the limits where the micro and the macro coincide, at the dangerous limit where the micropolitical potentially terri- torializes into fascisms in the making.26 For “fascism is inseparable from a proliferation of molecular forces in interaction, which skip from point to point. . . . There is fascism when a war machine is installed in each hole, in every niche” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 214).27
Waltz with Bashir gives life to the bare activity of the political bubbling to the surface of the transcendental field at the same time that it warns that surfaces are not purveyors of moral truths. In the immensity of Bashir’s face filling the screen and dwarfing the soldier, we sense that protopolitics are always potentially fascist politics, and yet we also feel the uncanny sur- plus of the waltz’s movement undermining the straightforward narrative of political predetermination. From the waltz to Bashir, from the soldier’s face lost in the reverie of his mad movement to the calm certainty of Bashir’s distant gaze, a political drama is set forth that creates a tight circuit of mo- lecular potentials and micropolitical captures.
As Ari Folman was creating Waltz with Bashir, microfascisms were playing themselves out in different ways across political constituencies, as they have a tendency to wherever there is a transcendent capture, be it liberal or neo- liberal, conservative or neoconservative. At the liberal edge of the spectrum “we” insist on a politics of recognition based on a benevolent responsibility for the other that builds on dichotomies of inclusion/exclusion, perpetra- tor/victim, and reifies the human in the name of race, identity, gender. Not necessarily fascism but certainly a tending-toward fascism in the name of a universal figure of the human. As Guattari underscores, the universal as a tendency activates forms of microfascism in the name of desire to have the final word on the moral and the immoral, right and wrong, and this tending toward universalizing is with us, always. “Fascism happened and it never ceases happening. It travels through the finest weaves; it is in constant evo- lution. It seems to come from the outside, but it finds its energy in the heart of each of our desires” (Guattari 1977a, 62; my translation). Fascisms are war machines that fill the holes and gaps of potential, sedimenting the open topological surface of the transcendental field. Fascisms are a strange interplay of rigidity and suppleness—rigid disciplinings that reek of totali- tarianism, supple choreographies of surface-cells in the making. Waltz with
Bashir does not protect us from the microfascist edges of politics. Indeed, it takes us again and again to their limit. What Waltz with Bashir does is refuse to know in advance how the consequences of the undeniable horror of the massacre play out, and where the ongoing fascisms of politics in the making are located. In so doing, it makes felt how fascisms never reign simply on the macropolitical surface of experience—they crawl between, across strata of experience, resurging in forms and forces less obvious than those in the macropolitical realm but no less insidious.
This is what Waltz with Bashir does: it complexifies the stakes by resisting the settling of fascism within one or another of the camps; it resists person- alizing the political. Go back to the waltz scene, the scene of bullets flying and a soldier dancing, and see once more how the impassive face of Bashir is superimposed onto the agitations of a life. And note how, by superimpos- ing Bashir’s face, enormous and compelling, onto the backdrop of a mad dance of a soldier’s undoing, Waltz with Bashir activates and makes felt the originary difference at the heart of all dephasings. How it makes felt that there is much more at stake than simply one surface of experience. How it makes felt that what surfaces is also how it surfaces.