waltzing thE liMit 65
ture from the Warsaw ghetto? The one with the kid holding his hands in the air? That’s just like the long line of women, old people and children looked.” The victims are walking toward us, their bodies black against the amber night sky. We are looking straight toward the child’s face—the child who reminds us of the child from the Warsaw ghetto—his hands up in the air. The child walks slowly toward us, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten seconds, but though we recognize his gesture, his slow walk reaching-toward a memory in the making, we cannot quite see him, we can- not quite make him come to life, to our life. His face remains shadowed by the amber-black. Color-light before face, surface before content. And yet we know the content and it haunts us: we are there, back at the camps, in the fascisms of our memories.
We enter the camp, this camp, its surfaces almost completely amber, the air like an amber gauze of sand and light, and we walk behind the women, the women we’ve seen three times before in the scene of the bodies rising from the water, but this time the women are walking away from us, scream- ing, wailing, clutching their bodies, holding their heads (figure 8). We can- not see their faces (see figure 7).
Moving through them, we find ourselves beside their anguish, our pace now a little in advance of their movements. We dread what we are about to see. In the distance we see him, facing them, the soldier-filmmaker, his face filling the screen, his previously impassive face slowly falling apart (figure 9). As we approach, as the face beckons larger and larger, we see that the face is no longer pure surface: it is leaking, breathing, chest heav- ing up and down, mouth slightly open, eyes roving. We feel the face’s break- down, the loss of its contours, and through this intensive folding we feel the whole metaphysical surface of the film folding into expression. But it is not expression of content: we do not see what he sees, our backs still to the women. What he sees: the ineffable, the ungraspable, the horror.
And then we do see. We see with our own eyes. We see the wailing Pal- estinian women through the documentary footage taken in 1982. One Pal- estinian woman’s face fills the screen, growing larger than life, larger even than the space of the frame (figure 10). Then the face moves away from us, into the devastation of the massacre. Now another face looks straight at us, screaming, wailing into the eye of the camera in a language so many of us will never fully comprehend. And in a rush we feel everything, we feel the amplitude of the transcendental surface now active on the surface of life, this life: we feel the terror, the empathy, the guilt, the shame, the horror. Yet