we feel it not solely in their name, but in the fullness of our taking part. We feel it as our own movement across the surface of the ineffability of experi- ence. This shift from animation to documentary footage shakes our relation to the image. We feel-see the horror.
In two minutes, the metaphysical surface of the film has completely shifted. Everything has come undone. But this is not the film’s first un- doing. The series of undoings that occur throughout the film keeps the cir- cuit tight between affect and emotion, holding us to the now of experience in the making. These undoings are what keep us from taking the stance of the dispassionate observer, that keep us from falling into our selves. We watch-with, we feel-with the terror of a life fleeting, consumed, subsumed by the horrors of war. And so we become responsible before the event, in the face of it, in its incessant coming-to-act, as Deleuze would say. For what Waltz with Bashir has instantiated with its roving imagescape and its relent- less sonorous continuum is emphatically not a responsibility for the event, as though the event could be captured and circumscribed.33 This is not to say that the coupling with fascisms in the making is not always there, at the ready, as are the risks of becoming responsible for, of taking a universaliz- ing stance from beyond the event of a life’s unfolding. The spectre of the boy with his hands raised, the recall of Warsaw, looms large. A rigid segmen- tarity. But still the film resists, I believe, and it is this resistance that is most haunting.
The documentary footage barely lasts one minute, its blues and grays
pausing in the end on an image of orange, a dead girl’s body, before we are taken back to black screen of the animated film, back to the amber cred- its, back to the Schubert that has returned more than once, differently each time, activating the sonorous continuum of our experience in the watching. But before the credits, the screen remains black, a blackness that lasts an eternity of twelve seconds. We do not know where we stand.34 The ground trembles with the responsibility before life. We cannot comprehend the imagescape. It washes over us, black, a surface alive with the haunting so- norous continuum of a horror uncharted, a surfacing that now gives time for the re-creation of a circuiting back to each and every amber-gray-black image of the film. We are back, rising out of the water, walking into a city at dawn, terrified and deadened by the difference of repetition. We are back, rising out of the water, dressing on the edge of the sea, holding our hands up in the nightmare of Warsaw, lost in an image that refuses to situate us.
Waltz with Bashir resists the resolve of a dogmatic political stance, leaving us instead at the very heart of the drama of the political barely-active. “Every- thing changes when the dynamisms are posited no longer as schemata of concepts but as dramas of ideas” (Deleuze, 1994, 218). How is the dramatic question. In its departure from the transcendental what, the differential how is what Waltz with Bashir is concerned with. How: how to conceive of rela- tions of force over and above a power structure that puts the individual at the center?
Relations of force are relations in their incipiency. They are tendencies in the making. Their will to power is a fight to the death between the meta- physical surface and transcendence. Transcendence often wins, because in the end it is easier to give up on the amber-gray of the face-as-surface, to turn away from the ineffable, to make the individual both the starting point and the endpoint, to background the uncertainty of relations still in- forming, to place blame, to live in resentment, to be a victim, to be guilty, to be innocent.30 Yet to make the personal political—to opt for transcen- dence—is to radically underestimate the power of fascism and its unique ability to morph into folds of experience as yet unthought.
There is no question: responsibility must be taken, consequences must be faced. The macropolitical cannot be ignored. But the edge, the differen- tial where the molar and the molecular meet is equally vital. For it is here, where the bare-active forces of the political agitate beyond the realm of the personal or the individual, that difference is felt at its most acute.
Waltz with Bashir is a political drama whose strength is that it plays itself
out at the uneasy intersection of a life effervescing and politics’ potential reterritorialization on the face of fascism.31 Waltz with Bashir refutes an easy solution. There is no promise here, nor even the certainty that it isn’t fas- cism that rears its ugly head as the film comes to a close. Yet it is also here, it seems to me, in the uncertainty, that the potential looms for something yet to come that has not yet found its name, its face: a politics-in-the-making. In providing us with the opportunity to think the how of protopolitics, Waltz with Bashir calls forth the future, but not a readymade one. An uncer- tain one. In doing so, it resists territory’s refrain, creating the opportunity for an ongoing conversation across surfaces of war and violence, an on- going conversation not only about past wars or ongoing massacres, not only about the ineffability of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and its micro- and macrofascist tendencies, but also about the danger of “new forms of micro- fascisms: the simmering of familialism, at school, in racism, in ghettos of
all kinds” (Guattari 1977, 62; my translation).
Waltz with Bashir does this by taking a protopolitical stance: we must be wary of identifying too strongly with the face, for the face is a dangerous proposition—either we recognize it as our own, or we turn away from it in horror.32 The face must remain a topological surface equal to all other surfacings: it must not territorialize too quickly onto an identity, onto an individual, onto the Jew or the Palestinian. Because if it does, we will have positioned ourselves in advance, and we will already have succumbed to the most potentially racist of subject-object positions.
Beyond the face is where the politics of the more-than can begin. But we must walk the tightrope carefully, remembering all the while, as Deleuze and Guattari remind us, that there are no micropolitical experiments im- pervious to capture by macropolitical tendencies and vice versa: “everything is political, but every politics is simultaneously a macropolitics and a micro- politics” (1987, 213).