Beyond the Human
On the dangers of macropolitical capture, we can learn, perhaps, from the troubling about-turn of Emmanuel Levinas, whose ethical philosophy is constructed on the ineffability of the face but for whom, as a Zionist Jew, the face of the Palestinian was, in the end, too much to face.
Levinas’s ethical philosophy is constructed around the concept of the face-to-face encounter where “the face is present in its refusal to be con-
tained” (1961, 194). His ethics underscore the idea that the face cannot be comprehended or encompassed, and he is clear that the face must not be thought as “content”—that it ultimately cannot be grasped or touched as such. The face is always the face of the Other, it is that which underscores “the incomprehensible nature of the presence of the Other” as the first reve- lation of the absolute difference of the Other, a relation that is “maintained without violence, in peace with this absolute alterity” (1961, 195, 197).
So far, the face as Levinas conceptualizes it is very reminiscent of the face in Waltz with Bashir. It refuses to be contained and operates as the topological surface of difference. But where the film significantly diverges from Levi- nas is in its emphasis on the infrahuman and on the question of response/ responsibility. In Levinas, the absolute alterity of the face, that “puts me in a relation with being,” calls forth a need for a response, and there is no question that this is a response directed at another human (1961, 212). Relations abound and encounters multiply in Waltz with Bashir, but these encounters are between abstract surfaces—face-color, face-sound, face- dance, each of them operational in the tight circuit where the virtual and the actual coincide and differential relations play themselves out. Were Waltz with Bashir to demand “a response,” a human-to-human encounter before all else, it would risk falling right back into the transcendence of political pre-positionings. In order to create an opening onto the drama of the politi- cal where relations of force are what is at stake, and not individual power, Waltz with Bashir must do everything to avoid making the precomposed, pre- narrated body of the human the center of life-living.
This is the topic of the conversation that takes place between Levinas, Alain Finkielkraut, and Shlomo Malka in the aftermath of the Sabra and Shatila massacre. The discussion begins with the question of response and responsibility, underscoring, as far as I am concerned, the dangers of an ethical philosophy that humanizes experience and seeks to comprehend it in a gesture of recognition of its humanity.
Shlomo Malka begins the conversation by quoting a talk of Alain Fin- kielkraut’s where Finkielkraut says, “We are all split between a feeling of innocence and a feeling of responsibility, both of which are anchored in our traditions and our ordeals. I do not yet know which of the two, innocence or responsibility, we will choose as Jews. But I believe that our decision will determine the meaning that we give to the ordeal of genocide” (Levinas, Finkielkraut, and Malka 1989, 290).
Taking this quote as a starting point, Malka asks: “Levinas, you are the
philosopher of the ‘other.’ Isn’t history, isn’t politics the very site of the en- counter with the ‘other,’ and for the Israeli, isn’t the ‘other’ above all the Palestinian?” Levinas responds: “Prior to any act, I am concerned with the Other, and I can never be absolved from this responsibility.” Continuing on the subject of responsibility toward “those ‘who have done nothing,’ ” and focusing on the concept of an “original responsibility of man for the other person,” Levinas underscores the fact that “my self . . . is never absolved from responsibility toward the Other” (Levinas, Finkielkraut, and Malka 1989, 290–91).
Levinas’s statement turns the stakes of the discussion toward the spe- cific question of the Jew and the Palestinian and the responsibility of Zion- ism in the face of the Sabra and Shatila massacre. Is it a responsibility for or a responsibility before? And, can there be any question of innocence? Levinas responds: “in alterity we can find an enemy, or at least then we are faced with the problem of knowing who is right and who is wrong, who is just and who is unjust. There are people who are wrong” (Levinas, Finkielkraut, and Malka 1989, 294). From the thinker for whom responsibility is always the question of the response elicited by the face of the other yet who claimed that the face must always remain without content, do we not experience here the stark reterritorialization on the face against which Deleuze and Guattari warn in their work on faciality?33 Isn’t the question of responsi- bility once again a question of whose face? Is it not the face of the other whom we now see as wrong?
This is precisely what Waltz with Bashir resists: nowhere in the film is there a reterritorialization on the face of the other. By the time the Palestinian women’s faces appear, it can no longer be a question of territory, the sur- faces far too intermeshed. Waltz with Bashir thus resists the two tendencies at play here in the bringing together of ethics and politics: the staging of the politico-ethical solely in the body of the human and its responsibility for the other it faces. Responsibility for reeks of benevolence, a dangerous kind of liberal humanist “generosity” that maintains the other as either victim or perpetrator, keeping the strata rigid. Being responsible before is a different proposition. To be responsible before is to engage at the nonhuman limit of the barely active where a life is restlessly agitating. On the cusp where the surfaces of life-living resonate, on the sonorous continuum of the in- effable, responsibility before means that we cannot already have positioned ourselves, that we are indeed, as Deleuze suggests, sorcerers creating life, and more life.34
To create more life is to produce difference. It is to resituate memory in the act of the telling that opens life-living to the pure experience of the welling now. “Recollection introduces difference into the  present  in  the sense that recollection constitutes, each subsequent  moment,  something new” (Deleuze 2004, 45; translation modified). The drama of politics at the heart of Waltz with Bashir is the recursive now, the terrible now of the tense, war-infested street where the soldier erupts from his war-self into a dance, the eerie now of the love boat’s dance exploding into blood-red ocean, the strangely quiescent now of Bach dancing in the forest. This drama of time, in time, is not theatrical. Waltz with Bashir does not represent war or memory or suffering. It does not express it on a stage that is separate from its hap- pening. It lives it, on the very edge of life where life takes on the resonant political drama of a life.