A politics without promise, as chapter 3 emphasizes, is a politics in move- ment. It is a politics in the making, an activist philosophy, as Brian Massumi might say. Activist philosophy is concerned with “coincident differences in manner of activity between which things happen [where] the coming- together of the differences as such—with no equalization or erasure of their differential—constitutes a formative force” (Massumi 2011b, 5). Activist philosophy is not a politics yet. It is about the force of the political in its activation.
Activist philosophy “begins as a principle of co-composition between coincident manners of occurring” and is allied to the claim in Whitehead’s process philosophy and James’s radical empiricism that relation, or the in- act of an ecology of experience, precedes form (Massumi 2011b, 5). What is radical about activist philosophy is that it always begins in movement and never stops moving. It is, as I will emphasize throughout this chapter and in the following interlude, more objectile than object, more potential than form. “Neither potential nor activity is object-like. They are more energetic than object-like (provided that no presuppositions are made as to the physi- cality of ‘energy’ or the modes of causality involved in the energizing of events). For the basic category they suggest is just that: occurrence. Neither object nor subject: event” (Massumi 2011b, 6).
This chapter takes on the call of activist philosophy to ask how a choreo- graphic practice challenges the presupposition that movement is secondary to form, subjective or objective. The choreographic, as developed here, is a
technique that assists us in rethinking how a creative process activates con- ditions for its emergence as event. Whether and how this emergent event ties into a politics in the making is an open question. But one thing is cer- tain: a politics in the making depends on generating a movement constel- lation that activates a singular modality of encounter. And each such event involves, in some sense, a choreographic practice.