Choreograph (v.): to arrange relations between bodies in time and space
Choreography (v.): act of framing relations between bodies; “a way of seeing the world”
Choreography (n.): result of any of these actions
Choreography (n.): a dynamic constellation of any kind, consciously created or not, self-organising or super-imposed
Choreography (n.): order observed . . . , exchange of forces; a process that has an observable or observed embodied order
Choreograph (v.): to recognize such an order
Choreography (v.): act of interfering with or negotiating such an order (Klien, Valk, and Gormley 2008)
While allied to dance, choreography is not dance per se. A cursory explo- ration of the term on Google Scholar produces hundreds of entries that have little to do with dance—in fact, in the search for the term “choreography,” dance appears in relation to it in a consistent manner only after twenty- two webpages. What I find instead are papers with titles like “Choreog- raphy of the Dna Damage Response” (Lisby, Barlow, Burgess, and Roth- stein 2004), “Chromosome Choreography: The Meiotic Ballet” (Page and Hawley 2003), “Choreography and Orchestration: A Synergetic Approach for System Design” (Busi, Gorrieri, Guidi, Lucchi, and Zavattaro 2005), and “Making Parents: The Ontological Choreography of Reproductive Technolo- gies” (Thompson 2005). This is not to make light of the practice of cho- reography but to emphasize, as William Forsythe does, that “choreography and dancing are two distinct and very different practices” (2008, 5).1 As this chapter proceeds and bleeds into subsequent chapters that explore and activate choreographic thinking, it will be important to recall this warning of Forsythe’s that choreography and dance are divergent practices and that movement does not begin and end with the human body. While I often draw
from the field of dance, my intention, alongside choreographers and think- ers such as Forsythe, Valk, Klien, and Gormley,2 is to think choreography not as the organizing principle of precomposed bodies but as a technique for bringing to expression the patterning of incipient activity toward the definition of a movement event. Activist philosophy.
In its most common definition, as Klien, Valk, and Gormley (2008) state, choreography is a verb—the activity of arranging relations “between bodies.” Pushed to its limit, this statement suggests that what is crafted choreographically are not bodies as such but relations. Choreography less as that which is generated by the human for the human than a practice that foregrounds how the event itself attunes to a relational milieu that ex- ceeds the human or wherein the human is more ecological than individual. Choreography as a practice that asks, as Deborah Hay does, how each cell attends to the encounter movement proposes.3 Choreography as a prac- tice that attends to the immanent field of relation that is part and parcel of environments in-forming. For choreography is, in Guattari’s terminology, a heteropoeisis, a self-generating practice of difference. It is at once, as Klien, Valk, and Gormley suggest, “a dynamic constellation,” “an exchange of forces,” and “the act of interfering and negotiating the [emergent] order” (2008, 17). Choreography: the act that sets into motion a milieu. Choreog- raphy: the milieu’s self-generation into event.