Choreography as Proposition
“Choreography starts from any point,” writes William Forsythe (qtd. in Caspersen 2000, 33). Choreography cleaves an occasion, activating its re- lational potential. It makes time, beginning its process anew always from the middle of the event. Choreography is thus a proposition to the event. It asks the event how its ecology might best generate and organize the force of movement-moving. It does so not by abstracting itself from the event but always as part of the event—choreography can never be separated out from its coming into itself as event.
Choreography as event is the fielding of a multiplying ecology in a co- constitutive environment. It develops in the incipiency of the in-between, spurred by tendencies that waver between the rekindling of habit and the tweaking of a contrast that beckons the new.
For an event to tune itself choreographically, many techniques are nec- essary. Techniques can be generated as tasks or they can be self-generating.
Either way, choreography as a generative practice must ask how the tasks become propositional, how the coalescing ecology becomes more-than the enabling constraints that set it into motion.
The proposition, for Whitehead, works as an inflection that affects how a given occasion comes to expression: propositions elicit action in an envi- ronment of change. The proposition is a lure. It is a force that cuts into the incipient event to alter its experiential vectorization. The proposition, how- ever, is never added on to an occasion. It is of and with the occasion—its immanent cleaving. This cleaving activates the force of contrast within the occasion, opening the occasion to its difference. Contrast is here under- stood as the force of difference that activates the dephasing through which the occasion is felt as such.
As emphasized in chapter 3, contrast is not a difference between an ex- ternal set of givens. The event itself is a field of contrast. Contrast is the force of difference directly felt in the event as well as the modality through which an event comes to expression in its absolute difference from all other events.
Each  proposition  activates  contrast. When  Forsythe  proposes  “drop a curve,” for instance, what he means is not “reconfigure the habit” but “move through contrast.” If you tend to drop through your side, creating a curve from hip to shoulder, begin there. But go elsewhere with it—let it take you elsewhere. Feel the movement’s differential and move with its inflection in the event, letting it move the you you are becoming.
You might mistake the proposition for a simple demand. Do this! Do that! This is not the case. Whitehead emphasizes that the proposition, while it can operate linguistically, does not depend on language. “Spoken lan- guage,” Whitehead warns, “is merely a series of squeaks” (1978, 264). Lan- guage by itself means little. “The vagueness of verbal statement is such that the same form of words is taken to represent a whole set of allied proposi- tions of various grades of abstractness” (1978, 193). When language moves us, it is because it operates in the associated milieu of relation, becoming- propositional. A proposition can unfold in language but not as an additive to an already-stable matrix of denotation. Propositions intensify, attenuate, inhibit, transmute not meaning only but the affective force of the time-slip of experience in the making.
How a task or technique becomes propositional is a key question. Drop a curve is a task insofar as it creates a field for the questioning of how move- ment is generated in the image of a curve dropping. It is propositional when
it activates a tonality that alters the way a body-ecology can move. In the Forsythe Company, many propositions begin as tasks, and, as such, they cannot be abstracted from the many hours of technique that feed the com- pany’s complex movement lexicon. The necessity of technique should not be underestimated: technique is what allows the ecology of movement to open itself to its generative potential. But technique is not enough. Drop a curve becomes propositional precisely when it becomes capable of activating the beyond of technique. It becomes a proposition when it begins to exceed the technical, making operable a kind of bodying that is unforeseen (unprac- ticed) but available from within the register of the movement that will have preceded and followed it.
Drop a curve reaches its propositional potential when contrast is acti- vated such that the becoming-body fields the curving of spacetime in a new way, itself co-constituted by this newness. If this happens, what is experi- enced is the creation of a previously unfelt sensation that now permeates the welling occasion. In the doing, there is a direct experience of the occasion’s transindividuation. This direct experience of the event as transindividuat- ing—as more-than—is more important—and longer lived—than the form the bodying has momentarily taken. This is what makes the movement- event propositional. Form is fugitive. It is the more-than that persists. Drop a curve is propositional not when a body has been defined but when the force of movement-moving activates a field of relation that alters the affec- tive and compositional ecology of the larger event of movement-moving. From technique to technicity.