Whitehead writes: “the proposition constitutes what the feeling has felt” (1978, 186). Feeling is not a reflective act (after the fact). It is the force of the in-act experienced in the now of an event’s becoming. Say you’re experi- menting with drop a curve on stage, performing Eidos: Telos (Ballet Frank- furt, 1995). Many hours of technique have preceded this event. The task is now in you: you move the movement as it comes, drawn in by choreographic principles, folding through technique.
Suddenly the movement curves you in a way that elicits surprise—drop a curve appears in the moving in a way never experienced before. At the same time it is strangely reminiscent of a movement you have been striving to feel all along. You experience an uncanny “déjà-felt”—or déjà-unfelt—a
direct experience of difference felt in the act. Difference because there are many movements that are akin to what moved you, yet the how of this sin- gular movement-event has startled the original task, opening it up toward its more-than. This sensation of the more-than in the moving is likely ex- tremely subtle and probably quite imperceptible to others, except in its qualitative force (which can make all the difference to the self-generating choreographic field).
This déjà-felt is not a return to the past—for it is clear that this feeling has not quite been felt before until its “beforeness” was acutely felt, just now. What is directly felt is a time-loop of movement-moving, movement moving the you you are now becoming. You are dancing two spacetimes at once, as they are dancing you. Drop the curve has become a proposition for dancing the interval of experience in the moving.
The force of a proposition is that it creates the conditions for tapping into this intensive felt interval of the between. It inflects the occasion, cre- ating a relational matrix that transforms the singular elements into a net- work of potential, generating an appetite for difference in the associated milieu that is the event unfolding.