From Time to Time
“Time is the exquisite product of the dancing body” (Forsythe 2008, 111). A choreographic process must become cognizant of the ways in which time is constructed, both quantitatively and qualitatively, in order to make felt the play of time’s double movement.
Quantifiable time is grasped always from the outside. It is the has-been of an event, measured in retrospect. Event-time, on the other hand, is the feltness of experience in the making. One is measured after the fact, one is felt in the now of movement-moving. Choreography works with both. Quantifying the time of a movement allows for repetition and the setting into sequence of a measurable component of movement technique. Event- time activates the technicity that opens technique to its more-than. The paradox: the repetition is also to a large degree mired in the qualitative, for repetition will always be a re-creation in time. Each repetition of a move- ment sequence will requalify the time of the event: the repetition will acti- vate a new time signature for the movement’s duration. Every return to the same will be a return to difference, a spiraling deviation into the multiplying time-slip of event-time. To move is always to activate the time of the event,
to feel-with the varying velocities of time’s multiple rhythms. Time, moving us, moving time. No choreography can truly be made to measure.
When time itself becomes the focus of a choreographic proposition, what results is the realization that time is unsustainable. Forsythe explains: “I am inclined to believe that because we are bodies and possess perceptive mechanisms we also have time. I suspect our ability to construct time is predicated on the manner in which the body integrates its perceptions and upon the action necessary to generate these perceptions. The characteristic I would most associate with bodily time is the unsustainable. Nothing in the body can be sustained indefinitely” (2008). What is unsustainable is the experience of time in-itself. To manage this unsustainability, we tend to ap- proach event-time as though it could be parceled out in manageable quan- tities of distinct presents, pasts, or futures. But despite our best efforts, event-time remains uncountable. Event-time is a miring in the multiplicity of nows—the now that has passed, the now that is passing, and the now that will have been, each phase of nowness contributing to the occasion at hand in a time-loop that resists the organization of experience into a linear continuum. To be in-time is to experience the uncanniness of being with the past in the future toward the present. Time as duration is unmeasurable, unknowable as such, unsustainable in experience.
Experiential time is always the time of the event. When an event takes form, the signature of an actualizing event-time emerges that sets time-as- now in motion.4 By foregrounding the singular time of the event, choreo- graphic propositions make felt the time for experimentation.
Nik Haffner, a former dancer for the Ballet Frankfurt,5 discusses the overlapping use of metric and durational time in Forsythe’s choreographic process. What strikes Haffner is that despite the use of instruments for quantifiable measure (clocks, metronomes), Forsythe’s interest seems to lie less in the measurability of time (and the body’s coordination to that measure) than in “events that are, given their timely complexity, unrepro- ducible” (2004, 135). Rather than treating quantified time as the organizing node for choreography’s expression, Forsythe urges his dancers to become flexible in the time of the emergent event such that what is felt, in the mov- ing, is “how measure and duration coexist in the activity of creating bodies of time” (Haffner 2004, 136).
Choreography as propositional works with coexistent tendencies over- lapping toward the creation of new vectors. It activates a diagrammatic force that exceeds the description or the representation of a process. In so
doing it creates a transduction, a jump in register that incites a new pro- cess—from a thought of movement to a movement of thought, from time measured to time felt.
The choreographic proposition generates less the stability of a complex of form than the foregrounding of a field of resonance that defines a cer- tain quality of activity. It serves not to delineate positions or forms from one another in a normative practice of movement notation but to create a diagram that captures, in a fleeting moment, the qualities of movement expressibility such that their force of form can felt.6 Choreography here is concerned with the way movement co-composes with time-felt to create complex ecologies in the register of the more than human. What emerges is less a body moving in time than what I will call a mobile architecture in chapter 5—an architecting of spacetimes of experience coemergent with bodies in the making.
The choreographic field is a complex of experience that in itself cannot be mapped. “The resulting structure has a time complexity that . . . could not have been created by any one person, the many simple parts having re- combined in unforeseeable ways because of innumerable decisions made by the many involved” (Caspersen 2000, 34). What emerges choreographi- cally is less an organization of bodies than a cartography of incipient ten- dencies, of force of form. This force of form is not activated by decisions in the standard sense of being willed by the individual.7 Decision here is of the event: it is an activating cut immanent to the process of making movement, a vectoring into contrast by the proposition. Decision in the moving—like thought in the moving—is the event of tendencies colliding such that they coalesce in the time-slip of the new, spurred into invention by the ecology of the dance itself.