Nik Haffner describes a practice session with Forsythe. Haffner is experi- menting with a jump he feels isn’t working. He thinks he has the timing wrong. After watching for a while, Forsythe reminds him that it “isn’t the speed of the movement itself, but its stopping, the arrival, the reaching of the new position” that is at stake. Still, the jump continues to be missing something. Forsythe tries a different tack, explaining that “the end of the movement is not a real stopping,” suggesting to Haffner that to execute the movement successfully, he should continue “to think the movement
after the so-called Stop, that [he] should let the movement slowly endlessly grow” (Haffner 2004, 138).
Movement never stops. Every movement resonates with its preaccelera- tion and its overarticulation, active in a contagion of speeds and slow- nesses. A “first” movement is not “the beginning.” It is the activation of a differing velocity. Go back to the jump. The question is how to activate the time signature this singular jump requires, poised as it is within a larger field of movement-moving. This activation precedes the actual jumping—it is the event’s preacceleration. Despite the fact that nothing “visible” has happened yet, the jump’s force of form is very much in attendance. This force of form carries in itself not only the force of the preacceleration, but also the movement’s growing into its overarticulation. All of this before you’ve even left the ground.
The actual jump can be thought as the event’s decisive turn. For it is the actual jump that creates the rift in time that marks position, albeit a posi- tion that is less a site than the marking of the movement’s continuance, an evolution of site that immanently alters the quality of the taking off. The jump is less a jump-as-such than a dynamic coexperiencing of varying velocities in preacceleration, extension, and overarticulation.
To jump successfully is to jump-through the singularity of this singu- lar interweaving of preacceleration and overarticulation. It is to invite the thinking-feeling Forsythe emphasizes—the thought of the movement end- lessly growing after it ends—into the movement even before the displace- ment through space has taken place. To jump well is to move-through ve- locities too quick to know, but not too quick to feel. It is to move-with the durational process of the time of movement as felt event. The jump-as-such, however, never represents the totality of our experience. We live the jump- event. From incipient movement to incipient movement with the experi- ence of velocity in between, the jump cannot be known in metric time, but it can be thought-felt in the verge where time is elastic.
“[Forsythe] spends a lot of training time teaching us about the quality of different speeds and instructing us on the change of tempo as felt in our bodies” (Haffner 2004, 139). To feel time exceeds any standard notion of timing. It is to move in the more-than of back-griddable time, to activate and exploit the transitions between micromovements in the making and movement taking form. Among the techniques for making these transitions felt is the sounding of movement: “When [Forsythe] himself dances dur- ing practice, he often translates the movement vocally into a kind of word-
less singing, in order to assist us not only in visually showing the smallest change in tempo and movement dynamic through his body, but also under- scoring it acoustically” (Haffner 2004, 140). Forsythe sings the rhythm of movement taking form, making experiential the folds of what cannot be perceived as such. These folds of micromovements are virtual contribu- tions on the edge of actual movement. No actual taking form of movement could occur without the infinity of micromovements active in the displace- ment’s preacceleration. Micromovements are akin to the unsustainable— impossible to grasp and maintain—yet absolutely key to how movement resolves into a taking-form. When he sings movement, what Forsythe is sounding is not a body creating a particular form, but the speed of lived folding that is movement in the making.
How a movement develops depends on the how of lived folding. Take a line: elbow-shoulder. This line could be drawn as a vector or could be con- ceived as a curve inflected toward an inclination. Different speeds, differ- ent micromovements, different microperceptions. And, of course, different forms. The question is: how to push movement constellations “beyond the turn, to the point where [they go] beyond our own experience” (Deleuze 1988a, 27). When we move beyond our own experience, when we get dis- oriented in the sound of the in-between, it is the movement that takes over. Here, in the unsustainable arena where micromovements multiply to cre- ate microperception, new decisive turns emerge. The decisive turn is not about a personal decision—it is about the beyond of self, “beyond our own experience.” This beyond is not transcendental—it is generated in the event, immanent to it, activated not by a will imposed onto movement from the outside but through the event’s orchestration of a collusion of micromove- ments toward a singularity that tunes to the more-than of this or that pre- established form.
The conditions have to be right for this to occur. In the elbow-shoulder example, this might occur when the elbow-shoulder line takes on velocity such that a newness of experience activated through the contrast of habit and difference takes hold. When the body is no longer a container for move- ment but a force for the transduction of movement-moving, we will have gone beyond our own experience.
As an audience, the same shift to the beyond of experience can be felt. When the piece is truly propositional, when it activates a mobile architec- ture that is inherently diagrammatic in its force, we experience movement’s contrast more than its taking-form. We feel the resonance of the micro-
expressions of movement in the creation of difference. This experience of contrast is felt through the perception of how the echo of a remainder that is the incipience of the movement passes into the singularity of the next event. At dancing’s best, this verging on the new is felt intensively, trans- forming a series of steps into an ecology of experience. If captivated by the resonance machine, we become participants in event-time.