In Moving Memory
Living in time means activating, in the moving, the déjà-felt in all of its un- canniness. Memory, for Bergson, is not something stored and subsequently recollected. As apparent in Waltz with Bashir, memory in the making is the activation of the power of the false that re-creates the present through a complex remix of fabulation and pastness beyond any notion of the “true.” In the context of a choreographic practice, memory straddles technique and technicity, giving the event its durational quality, creating a platform for a body to become an ecology of a multitude of durational times inter-
woven.
Memory and perception are of a different order yet inextricably linked, “always interpenetrat[ing] each other, . . . always exchanging something of their substance as by a process of endosmosis” (Bergson 1939, 67). When a dancer moves, the movement is implicit in her perception of it, which is itself part memory. When we watch a dancer move, the movement perceived is similarly already imbricated in the memory of the previous movement coursing through it (and through us). Each movement is alive with a mem- ory that activates the becoming-body, including that of the spectator.8 This activation is not the recall of an actual movement: we wouldn’t have time to consciously perceive and remember and move a movement at the same time. The memory is always living, a force of activation ensconced in the future- presentness of discovering the feeling of movement again for the first time. This is also the case in everyday movement.
Take the walk. The walk’s unfolding as horizontality depends on finding within its quality of movement the doubleness of its point of virtual depar- ture and arrival. This bi-directional betweenness is what gives the move- ment its horizontalizing consistency. It is through the virtual interval of the walk’s preacceleration that walking is transformed from a step into a movement.9
An incipient tendency toward taking a step is felt as a walking when the divergent metastabilities congeal into a singularity such that the step takes the decisive turn toward the movement-moving of a walking. The flow of the walk now feels less like a stepping than a moving horizontality despite the fact that, like the steps themselves, the horizontalizing remains composed of an infinity of microtendencies toward verticality, the most obvious being the verticality of the body itself in relation to the horizontal ground across which it moves.
To walk is to move with the infinite complexity of micromovements— preacceleration’s activation of a million instabilities, overarticulation’s gen- erative rightings and productive destabilizings. Without the interweaving of the future-past in the present through memory’s active role as movement- generator in-the-moving, coupled with the tight interplay of micropercep- tion and micromovement, we couldn’t simply get up and walk.10
When we walk, each step is already virtually imbued with all previous walkings, all previous proprioceptive tendings toward a verticality that moves horizontally, all kinaesthetic sensings of a balancing in the between of multiple equilibriums. But it is also poised toward the future. We walk in a future-pastness whose virtual plenitude of experience and experimen- tation assures a metastability of balance. It’s not exactly that we remember how the ground touches the foot and the weight shifts as the body trans- fers from step to step. It’s that the stepping recalls itself in the act. Future- pastness. The memory of having-walked is in the walking. This is a memory on the edge of perception, a memory in-act that activates in the moving the multiple metastabilities that make this singular choreographed movement possible. Even when apparently passive, memory remains active, active in the folds of the future-presentness of perception, its time signature spe- cious. It is this passive-active memory of the metastabilities garnered from a lifetime of walking in the walking that saves us from a fall when the snowy ground suddenly turns to ice or when we almost-trip over the edge of the sidewalk.
Movement cannot be abstracted from the active recall of micromove- ment as it meets microperception—the intertwining of proprioception and kinesthesia, of past horizontalizings and future unbalancings. When pro- prioception is challenged,11 or when an accident has caused us to have to relearn to walk, it is this combination—the living memory of the walk walk- ing itself in the walking—that deserts us. A sore ankle can similarly take the
habit out of the walk, as can an onset of vertigo. If this happens, we find we not only have to tweak the metastabilities of our incipient movement toward new angles of comfort, we also have to relearn the feeling of walk- ing. We have to relearn the walking of the walk. Memory in the making.
Memory is like having a vision in the future-past. Forsythe (2003) writes: “One of our methodologies had to do with identically remembering another person’s variation, or sprays rather [. . .] and building a kind of architec- ture of movement around it, but you [have] to keep seeing this other person dancing in order to perform it, so it [becomes] a way of having a vision.” Memory is visionary in the sense of foresight: a seeing-with-before in the now of movement-moving. Moving someone else’s moving while you’re watching them move is like feeling future movement. You are moving with the incipient future (the always nextness of movement) in the present pass- ing. This is recall at work. Forsythe calls the experimentation with this recall-in-the-moving dancing with “a cloud of form” and describes it as a proprioceptive gathering of tendencies not actually reproduced but reacti- vated such that they can take form in relation to their already having taken place. Recall produces future memory, creating visions for movement in the making. Lived experience is the experience of fielding this visionary quality, be it in the walk or in the experimenting with new forms of movement. Be- coming visionary: to experience movement’s singular capacity to generate decisive turns.