One or More Rhythms?
The taking-form of movement is rhythmic. Rhythm is another way of evoking the multiplicity of time-slips of experience in any given occasion. Rhythm is not added to movement from outside its taking-form. Rhythm is what gives time to incipient movement, characterizing that movement’s singular in-timeness as it verges into event. This in-timeness is not strictly a beat or a measure. Despite appearances, rhythm is qualitative more than quantitative, a field of resonance that is coterminous with the incipiency of the movement’s preacceleration and the elasticity of its unfolding.12 It is qualitative in part because it challenges the pre-setting of movement into time: rhythm cuts across measure, bringing into collusion the how of movement-moving in the now of its unfolding. This how of movement- moving in the timeliness of the qualitative now of its unfolding is what I
am calling movement’s time signature. When Forsythe sounds movement he is not simply marking time’s measure. He is activating the rhythm of the breath as time signature in direct co-composition with movement-moving. Sound and movement are one. Rhythm is what makes felt, in the moving, the interplay between the microperceptual and micromovements, activat- ing for experience the force of movement’s time.13
Choreography’s ecology is rhythmic. It is composed of an infinity of varying velocities, vibrations, sensations. These individuating tendings of movement in the moving activate environmentalities that in turn in- flect how bodies move with and through the world. The time of rhythm or movement’s time signature is therefore always more-than (more-than actual, more-than human). Rhythm is how the future of movement-moving makes itself felt. Rhythm is how we know duration, a duration that is always more than one: “In reality there is no one rhythm of duration; it is possible to imagine many different rhythms which, slower or faster, measure the degree of tension or relaxation of different kinds of consciousness, and thereby fix their respective places in the scale of being. To conceive of du- rations of different tensions is perhaps both difficult and strange to our mind, because we have acquired the useful habit of substituting for the true duration, lived by consciousness, an homogeneous and independent time” (Bergson 1911, 275).