The Becoming of Continuity
Proposition: Execute a standard épaulement, then activate the more-than of this épaulement by re-creating its feeling in a movement that does not necessarily resemble it.14 Note how the torso twists before you even quite begin to move. Note the accompanying prefeeling of vertigo. Move into this feeling of vertigo-induced twisting. Experience how the proposition’s dia- grammatic force moves you, connecting your movement to the preaccelera- tion of a welling nextness. Overarticulate position. Note the way process and form interact.
When the épaulement realizes itself, it momentarily stops becoming. This position is now what it is, and will always remain what it was. A form has unfolded. We are still talking in half-seconds. In Whitehead’s terms, this singular movement—this occasion of experience—has achieved its satisfaction. There is no way to take back exactly this experience of the
épaulement and change it. The point is not that there can’t and won’t be an infinity of position-takings and processual becomings in the épaulement’s future, but simply that there can be no continuity of becoming once an event has taken form since the event’s culmination is by definition the end of an episode. As Whitehead states, “There is a becoming of continuity, but no continuity of becoming” (1978, 35).
Activating the becoming of continuity might look like this: go back to the épaulement. Note that the form the movement has taken has a quality that exceeds, escapes, or precedes it. Think of this quality as the movement’s interval. Recall that the interval is the latent relationality of form-taking— what connects actual movement to the virtual realm of movement-moving. Think the interval as the durational node that, while not yet actualized, holds the moreness of movement in-forming.15 Activate the interval with- out necessarily moving or altering the form. By activating this virtual share of movement, note that the actual movement opens itself to its more-than. The movement’s potentiality for the occasioning of its nextness is crafted by the incursion into its position of the interval as differential. When the interval is activated, what is danced in the nextness of movement-moving is the force of form instead of simply the position the form has taken. The activated interval becomes the carrier for a continuity in the making.
The interval is not added to the movement. It is the force or the proces- sual quality within the form’s time signature. Even when unactivated, it is always there, a key aspect of the relation between the event’s potential for continuity and its concrescence into form.
The interval is felt in the ways in which it contributes to the experience in act. In its contribution, what it does is not to instantiate an open-ended be- coming. It stimulates and intensifies tendings already in germ in the event’s concrescence. The interval cannot be separated out from the in-act. Yet, while it is never known as such, there is no denying it has a lived effect. It makes a difference.
The becoming of continuity can never be separated out from the idea of contrast, for it is contrast that ultimately creates resonances not only in but also between actual occasions. The becoming of continuity might there- fore also be called the becoming of difference. It involves moving with the differential of the occasion’s time signature, keeping the difference in the moving, creating a continuity out of movements’ dephasings, while never discounting the important tension between form and fold, form and force.
Pure process is outside experience. For experience to be lived, it is nec- essary for there to be a cut or a decisive turn that brings contrast to dura- tion. Yet, thanks to the force of form the interval activates, each form-taking is infected by the processual force of the more-than. There can be no be- coming of continuity without this more-than.
The challenge is to at once acknowledge the atomicity of the event and concede that there is a force of form that accompanies the expression of a process’s culmination. The event’s time signature is allied to this force of form, and yet it also exceeds it, for time, as Forsythe emphasizes, is unsus- tainable. Think the force of time as rhythm. Rhythm is always more-than. It is both the setting in time of the occasion in the now of its contempo- rary iteration and the pulse in the moving that marks the passage from one occasion to another. For rhythm is never of the form itself. It activates the event’s durational complexity both across its becoming and in its culmina- tion as discrete occasion.
To make this clear the schism has to be maintained between movement- moving and discrete movements even while acknowledging that there are mechanisms that fold these two planes of experience if not into one another then across one another. This folding has effects. It gives resonance to form. It gives elasticity to time. Recall Bergson’s statement that duration has more than one rhythm. The becoming of continuity is the resonant continuum through which the nexus of intervals makes felt its quality of relation across the differentials of time.
The event is a rhythmic ecology: it partakes of the infinite potential of all the durations that might have gathered into its particular expression of singularity while it continues to carry in its taking-form the unrealized ex- pressions of all the times of its making. It carries them not as decisions to exclude, but as propositions for the verge.