From Object to Objectile
Forsythe asks, “Is it possible for choreography to generate autonomous expressions of its principles, a choreographic object, without the body?” (2008, 5). The choreographic object, “a model of potential transition from one state to another in any space imaginable,” is less about the object as such than about the object’s capacity to generate event-time (Forsythe 2008, 6). When an object becomes the attractor for an event, it in-gathers the incipient event toward the object’s dynamic capacity for reconfiguring spacetimes of composition. This is what Forsythe’s choreographic objects are about—creating an emergent constellation for movement experimenta- tion that opens the choreographic to the beyond of dance.
Forsythe’s choreographic objects tend to find their point of departure in the form of an everyday object: a balloon, a piece of cardboard, a mir- ror. That they are everyday objects allows for a certain ease in the encounter with them—they are recognizable, malleable within our habitual movement practices, already available to our imaginations: we think we know what they can do. And yet, just as the objects have lured us into certain presuppo- sitions, we find that these objects are more than what they appear to be at first glance: in the setting of a choreographic encounter, they present them- selves as part of an evolving ecosystem. They extend beyond their object- ness to become ecologies for complex environments that propose dynamic constellations of space, time, and movement. These “objects” are in fact propositions co-constituted by the environments they make possible. They urge participation. Through the objects, spacetime takes on a resonance, a singularity: it becomes bouncy, it floats, it shadows. The object becomes a missile for experience that inflects a given spacetime with a spirit of experi- mentation. We could call these objects “choreographic objectiles” to bring to them the sense of incipient movement their dynamic participation within the relational environment calls forth.1
The objectile is like a cue for the resolution of an experience. It is what drives the experience to its final form. For this to happen, Forsythe cannot use just any object. The object has to be immanent to the event and active in its unfolding. It has to call forth participation in a way that is at once