Choreographic objects activate an environment for movement experimen- tation. The idea is to create an atmosphere that slightly tweaks the time of everyday movement, inviting it to tend toward the time of the event. Partici- pants who enter White Bouncy Castle (see figure 11) are not only transformed into “bouncing balls,” generating a playfulness that inflects the environ- ment.2 They also become participants in time of a different order: a time of experimentation.
Experimentation calls forth the time of the event. The participants move because they are moved to do so, their attention aroused, their awareness
tweaked, their engagement with the spacetime of the event already alter- ing the atmosphere of the space. White Bouncy Castle is more than a large platform for jumping: it effects a microperceptible change in the feeling of time, shifting the everydayness of time toward the durational time of play. Choreographic objects provoke this time-slip in large part because they bring to the fore the role objects play in everyday experience. Everyday ob- jects resonate with pastness. They exist in an ecology of experience from which they cannot be abstracted. Encountering a familiar object stimulates this experience of pastness even as it activates, in play, a refielding of ecolo-
gies at once familiar and disjointed.
When we directly perceive the past in the present of an occasion’s unfold- ing, Whitehead calls it nonsensuous perception. By nonsensuous percep- tion, Whitehead is referring to the complex rhythm of memory—a time-slip of experience that fields our current perceptions.3 In the fielding of experi- ence, Whitehead suggests, we perceive not first and foremost from sense to sense but from relation to relation. “The present moment is constituted by the influx of the other into that self-identity which is the continued life of the immediate past within the immediacy of the present” (1933, 181). It is not the past as such or the object as such we perceive in the then-now. It is the activity of relation between different thresholds of spacetime. It is the object from the past in the configuration of the present. The then-with.
This is how the choreographic object works. Think of entering a room re-
plete with mirrors that reflect an entrancing kaleidoscopic array that refuses to contain us (The Defenders, Part 2, 2008; see figure 12).4 We are attracted to the mirrors yet perplexed, for we are accustomed to mirrors refracting us. This activates a movement—we find ourselves experimenting with our own reflection, bending, swerving, jostling to be seen. And in so doing we be- come more and more aware not only of our own approach to the nonreflec- tive reflecting surfaces but to a collective grappling with the way the mirror is refusing to behave as a mirror.
The piece has created a movement, a circling in on itself, a beckoning to a kaleidoscopic landscape that is not of us and yet somehow draws us in. Or, as in the case of the piece when it premiered in Holland, what might have taken over is the collective desire to reorient, to alter space, to create with the conditions of the objects such that they metamorphose. The col- lective resistance to the injunction “do not touch” in that instance created a repositioning of the field such that the quality of play was activated less in the not-seeing of oneself than in the repositioning of the object in relation