There is always a specific device or mechanism that is integral to the structuring of the artwork that operates the transmonadic inclusion and makes the artifact world-like in its own unique way. In Barthes’s account of photography, the mechanism is the punctum and its way of including in the portrait the dynamic wholeness of a life-world including its own afterlife. In perspective painting, it’s the vanishing point.
The vanishing point is how the scene’s continuing into its own distance appears. What is in the distance doesn’t appear. The vanishing point is not more content. It is where the content of the scene fades out into the distance. The distance itself appears, through the fading. But the fading-out doesn’t even have to be painted in. It can be included in the painting without actually being painted, through the way the painting projects the eye into an abstract distance. The distance doesn’t have to be painted, because it can be lived, by the eyes. This is achieved in perspective technique by a compositional principle that follows rules of geometric projection. The composition of the painting is guided by a geometry of parallel lines projecting infinitely toward the vanishing point, in whose virtual distance they appear to converge. This produces a virtual visual movement, not unlike the movement I described in decorative motif. Except in this case, the movement doesn’t appear for itself, it appears for the geometric order that produced it. It doesn’t take off in its own right, it falls back into its abstract cause. What we see is not so much the movement. Through the virtual visual movement, we see the scene with a feeling of the regularity of its geometry. We can’t see the artwork’s content without thinkingfeeling its spatial order. Without producing it for our own experience of the scene. Perspective painting spatializes the visual movement it creates in order to produce a perceived order. The harmony and regularity of this perceived spatial order continues infinitely into the distance at the virtual center of the vanishing point. But it also radiates. It circles back from the virtual center, around to the outside of the frame. The scene is centered on the infinity of its spatial order, and is also fringed by it. It is immersed in it. The artwork is actually bounded by the frame, but its scene is virtually unlimited. It’s the semblance of a world, bounded and unlimited. The semblance is also in a sense closed, but not spatially. It closes the world’s constitutive variety on principle: the principle of a single, infinite order of harmony and regularity.