Pragmatically, the individual framing of the painting allows it, and its virtually unlimited order, to be inserted inside another frame. The painting is hung on the wall of the royal court. As a world-fragment in-spite-of-itself, it has no actual connection to this other world of the court. After all, its geometric order  of harmonious connection is virtual, a beautiful  semblance. But its insertion into the larger frame of the royal court makes its principle of universal order appear within that frame as well. Not uncoincidentally, the absolute monarchy aspires on its own behalf to just this principle of an infinitely radiating harmonious order, as regular and universal as geometry. Like painting, like realm. The all-seeing eye of the absolute monarch is the vanishing point of the kingdom. It is the abstract (god-like) cause of the ordered space of the realm, infinite by rights. The king’s body is the preeminent body whose virtual movements constitute the macro-order of the glorious whole of the realm. The space of the painting and the space of the realm are analogs of each other. They don’t connect in any direct way. They don’t actually connect. There is an unbridgeable reality-gap between them. They are actually incommensurable. One is a painting, the other a realm. They have different qualitative natures, operate at different scales, have different contents and components, and are put together differently. Actually, they are in a relation of nonrelation. Yet they produce, each in its own way, a semblance of the same order. Where they do overlap is at their virtual centers—their vanishing points coincide. The vanishing point only has an abstract or formal existence, because what it contains never appears. It’s the form in which what doesn’t actually appear appears. Except it isn’t even actually a form, it’s a form of abstraction, an abstract fading away, the appearing of a disappearing into the distance that folds the distance in, most harmoniously. The painting and the court enact the same form of abstraction, across their differences in scale, content, and components. They are different revolving around the same virtual center, which is immanent to both of them, the vanishing point where they each live themselves in. They coincide purely abstractly, at the very point at which they are immanent to themselves.