This requires adjusting the whole vocabulary we use to talk about “interactivity.” We have to translate that concept into relational terms, as I was trying to do at the beginning of this conversation, so that when we say “interaction” we’re saying “immanent relation,” with all the adjustments that come along with that in the way we think about what things actually are, what their action really is, and how they communicate. For one thing, we shouldn’t say “interaction” without thinking-feeling discontinuity. We will have to give the gaps between things, and from one moment to the next, their vital, virtual due. It is in those gaps that the reality of the situation is to be found. If we gloss over them, we are missing the thinkingfeeling of what really happens.4 We have to take a distance on the rhetoric of connectivity that has been so dominant in the areas of new media and new technology. We will have to treat connectivity as a narrative, a metafictional revisionism. To call something fictional is not to say that it is useless or unreal in the sense of being purely an illusion. “In one sense,” Whitehead writes, “everything is ‘real,’ according to its own category of being . . . ‘to be something’ is to be discoverable as a factor in the analysis of some actuality” (1967a, 197). The macro-continuity of interactivity shored up by the rhetoric of connectivity is indeed “discoverable as a factor in the analysis” new media actualities. It is a functionally effective fiction. One of the things its functioning does is to pass over the full spectrum of potential in the situations it organizes. It is not unreal in the sense that it does nothing. It just does otherwise than appears. The point is that connectivity and interactivity appear differently against the background of their virtual, Whiteheadian reality of immanent, affective continuity. (I should mention that Whitehead would not say “virtual.” He use the terms “pure potentiality” where Deleuze would say “virtual” and “real potentiality” for the virtual as it makes ingress into an actual occasion. For more on the way Deleuze charts his own vocabulary of virtuality, potential, and possibility into Whitehead’s—which is too complex to do justice to here—see 1993, 79–80.)