I’m not trying to set up Irwin as a model either. I’m saying that his installation work moves to a non-interactive relational limit of art experience, and that interactive art can take that movement up in itself. I’m saying that Irwin’s installation work is at an experiential limit or pole that can itself be put into resonance with another pole, at which experience has taken a certain distance on itself. The first pole is the living-in of relation, the second its living-out. Relation out-lived is subordinated to recognized makings-sense, the conduct of outwardly meaningful acts, action-reaction, instrumentation, function. Or if not so baldly to instrumentation, then still to mediation. And if not prosaically to function, then to intersubjective exchange mediated by instrumentation. The poles, however, can be played off each other, or play with each other, so that the work produces a lived quality all its own, doubles itself aesthetically in a semblance of itself, and at the same time actually does or tells something specific. The poles are not necessarily mutually exclusive. In fact, they always actually come together to some degree. Even in the most intensely lived-in art practice, there is a minimum of recognition, making-sense, instrumentation, and function necessary to enable the work to take off. A modicum of living-out is necessary for the work to occur.
Thought of in this way, art practice is a technique of composing potentials of existence, inventing experiential styles, coaxing new forms of life to emerge across polar differentials. Art is inventive, literally creative of vitality affect. I said earlier it was a technique of existence, and I do mean “technique.” To achieve any affective-effective composition requires the same kind of care, minute attention to detail, and obsessive experimentation in how the situation is set up or framed as Irwin is famous for. In Irwin’s case, the framing is nonobjective. It’s more a performance envelope than an objective frame. A dynamic or operative frame.