The aesthetic force of an expressive event is its charge of lived abstraction:  the  manner  of  semblance  it  produces,  and  the  intensities  of experience coming-together toward an issue in that semblance and playing renascently through it. The detachment of the semblance occurs in a relational field already overpopulated with techniques content-ready for its recontainment. Their inhabitation of the relational field within which an art is practiced makes that field a doubly problematic field. The aesthetic problem is always on the one hand compositional: how are the ingredient elements brought together in such a way as to become-immanent to the coming event as constitutive forces of its push toward pure expression? The compositional problem cannot be addressed without at the same time addressing the problem of relational co-habitation, which is ecological: which extra-elements will be admitted into the symbiosis of compositional co-immanence? Which will be treated as predators or competitors and be held at bay? How, and at what proximity or distance, to what follow-on effect? Will a degree of containment be accepted, or even encouraged with a view to managing it or channeling it? What will the posture be toward common sense? Good sense? Public opinion? Will gestures be made to certain codings or symbolic or metaphorical connections? If the latter, will they spiral in to a center of meaning or swing centrifugally out in associative abandon? If the former, of what kind? Narrativizing? Structurizing? Formalizing?
What brings these two sets of questions together as two sides of one complex aesthetic problem is that they both pivot on the question of immanence. What elements become immanent forces contributing to the event’s appetite for pure expression, and how? What elements don’t, and how again? It’s the same how. It’s the same question, seen from two sides. Any becoming-immanent to an event is toward the self-detaching of its semblance. Which leaves that which is detached-from out. This is a peculiarly altered “out.” The elements that will be remaindered as extra must be outedin—otherwise their buds of content will invade like weeds through cracks in the surface of the event. They must be actively ex-included. Whitehead calls this “negative prehension.” A negative prehension is an exclusive treatment paradoxically “expressing a bond” (Whitehead 1978, 41).