The fusion-effect detonates across a distance. It occurs to the differential between the sensuous and objective elements. It is the effective issue of a “real tension” (60). For example, Irwin first experimented with the reduction of the figuration to its most basic element: one or two lines against a colored background. He noticed by trial and error that an imperceptible change in the position of the line “changed the entire field” (71), as did any slightest change in color tone. This is because whenever a line is present, it activates a tendency in vision. Of its own accord, the line starts to detach from the background, in search of a figure to become. If the line is placed just so, it activates the figurative appetite of vision. It has already become more than a line, but is not yet a figure. If care is taken that no figure is evoked or in any way suggested by this minimal composition, vision is caught in a state of nascency of its tendency to figuration. It has been brought into a movement, but is pointing toward nothing outside itself. One of its capacities has been activated, but it has nowhere other than this capacitating event. It vibrates in its own capacity, shivering with an energy that has no object—an abstract energy. The disjunction between ground and figure is not filled with an energy of vision offering nothing to see. A perceptually felt movement occurring through an activation of vision, corresponding to no particular object of sight. A thought-felt kinesthetic-proprioceptive vision-effect. The horizontality of the line also activates a movement tendency of the colored background. A tension appears in the colored background, due to the tendency for vision to experience a horizontal line as a horizon line in a way that gives differential weight to the color below and above. The space below exerts a gravitational pull on vision that is perceptually felt as an inertia. Even the slightest suggestion of a lightness of color tone above will attract vision upward, accompanied by a sense that vision itself has been freed of a weight and has the lightness to rise. The overall effect produced by the painting is the encompassing fusion-effect of these two differential tensions.