Returning to the paradox of the virtual, that paradox is captured in the continuation of a phrase by James cited earlier: “full of both oneness and manyness, in respects that don’t appear” (James 1996a, 93–94). If the world is made of expression, the implication of James’ phrase is that there are aspects of the world that are expressed without actually appearing. The concept of the semblance is a way of making this paradox productive. It is designed to deal with the complication that, for example, what is seen with or through vision, without actually being seen in vision, is nevertheless perceptually felt, in effect. The semblance is the form in which what does not appear effectively expresses itself, in a way that must be counted as real. The example given above was the nonsensuous perception of the mouse-line. The mouse-line was composed by a differential participation of the senses in each other. The variety of the contributory sense modes went actively unseen in the abstract sight of the rodent-inflected vectoring of experience. But there is also semblance of sorts in the lightning, even though it is actually seen sensorially, in the sense that the appearance of its dynamic form is accompanied by an actual impingement of light rays upon the retina. The visibility of the lightning brought the commotion of elemental activity filling the night sky into vision, without it actually showing. It got into the act, but was lost in the show. The flashiness of the lightning was the brilliant tip of an atmospheric iceberg full of both oneness and manyness, whose field respects showily disappeared into the ontogenetic background. The lightning is the appearing tip of a more expansive event that never shows in its entirety. The fullness of the event’s conditioning and occurrence is perceptually felt, in the dynamic form of how what actually appears steals the show. Even if the event’s conditioning elements and culmination are actual, the entirety of the event is virtual: doubly nonlocal, nonsensuously present, registering only in effect, and on all three counts really abstract.