For such expressivity to be generated, repetition – or what we might also call technique, recalling my earlier discussion of the necessary practice involved in its cultivation as an enabler – is a necessary aspect of performative collaborations. What I want to extract for consideration from the Keyworx example is the assemblage that emerges from a series of relational, recursive and nonlinear dynamics oscillating around: collaboration/collectivity, repetition/interval, technique/technicity, It is this assemblage or ecology that calls forth a new field of expression. A collaborative assemblage such as the Keyworx event is made possible by the rhythm of all these relations. And it is the rhythmicity that transmutes the mere exchange of knowledge and skills of collaborative work into something else. Rhythm is what allows for collaborative techniques to transform into a collectivity and itself carries over into the new milieu for expression that is this collectivity. Rhythm is not a beat but a binding of the energetics of potential forces, pulsating with a movement of becoming as yet something else, anew. Rhythm needs the relation to the interval as differential; a differential that spaces and temporalizes repetition and which also emerges in any repeating: “Rhythm is never on the same plane as that which has rhythm. Action occurs in a milieu, whereas rhythm is located between two milieus, or between two intermilieus, on the fence, between night and day, at dusk, twilight or Zwielicht. (Deleuze and Guattari, 2005, 313–4). From the milieu of the practicing performers in the Keyworx event to the milieu of real time audience participation; from the milieu of the organic human body to the inorganic relays, redundancies and recursions of packet switching networks; from the milieu of one city and its time zones to that of another: the passing between these and the consistency that arises in doing so is rhythmic. Rhythm is not confined to the sonic but is a creative process of both consolidation and emergence.