In paying attention to these kinds of dynamics, we must give special consideration to the matter of elements in the mix. Yet if we reduce this mattering to a substantialist materialism in which particular technologies, media or kinds of organic bodies (like humans) play a determining role then we have again overlooked the reality of the inbetween. We must be wary of giving technical elements such as media platforms or communications technologies determining functions ahead of the actual process and work that they do in the ecology of collaborative work. What is at play in the inbetween is the dynamic expressivity of a plane or plateau of intensities.3 Intensities operate at a molecular level as ontogenetic conditions for and transversally moving across molar entities such as ‘bodies’, ‘users’ and ‘computers’. They are degrees of quality rather than quantity such as the tint and saturation of a colour. Intensities can be felt directly in experience across and in the dynamic tendencies when larger molar entities engage as well. They are always experienced in change as some shift or other occurs to take these dynamics elsewhere.
I want to now look at two sophisticated media environments and assemblages for collaboration involving customised technical elements, audiences, ‘players’ as well as unwitting nonhuman participants. I am interested in these assemblages because rather than setting up models for interaction as such, they develop techniques instead that recruit a computational apparatus in order to create the conditions for intensities to be given duration.  What is crucial for both these aesthetic projects are the ways in which techniques had to be invented in situ, in consort with the technologies and players, and that what has resulted is the generation of novel fields of expression. It is this attention to an ecology of practice that allows the inbetween to emerge as an experimental terrain that can be felt in the encounters that take place through the particular aesthetic processes generated. I’ll then sketch out some current experiments with which I am involved that use lo-fi and consumer-end communications platforms. All of these examples depart from the still commonly accepted conception of media as mediators or channels between communicators and take up a new constellation – that of immediation.