Scholium c. The issue of affect's relation to intensity is intimately tied to the basic Spinozist definition of affect as the "ability to affect and be affected." This base definition must always be completed by the corollary that the playing out of an ability to affect and be affected coincides with the crossing of a threshold accompanied by a registering of the feeling of that transition. Affect comprises the differential between these two aspects. It involves many sub-differentials on each side. On the registering- of-the-feeling side, the sub-differentials concern the way that an affective quality always includes a sense of another, related quality differing from it. An example is the way that love and friendship always mutually include each other, in a patterned contrast having different emphases and activating different attractors, such that the differential between them plays out into different tendential orientations according to the case. On the ability-to-affect-and-be-affected side, the sub-differentials include things like contrasts of position, disposition, movement pattern, resilience, and plasticity. On that side, affect pertains to an intensive field. On the accompanying registering-of-the-feeling-of-the-transition side, it pertains to the coming to expression of the field's intensity. This gives the concept of affect a conceptual spread. The word affect can be used to encompass both sides, or it can be used to refer preferentially to one side or the other. "Intensity" can have the same spread, since affect does not separate itself from it but rather brings it to an emphasis of immanent expression. Accordingly, "intensity" can drift toward synonymy with "affect." Each time "affect" is used, it is important to be aware of the conceptual spread of its double-sided nature. Each time "intensity" is used, its imbrication with "affect" should be noted. In what follows, intensity and affect will mainly, but not always, be plotted to the two contrasting sides, with "intensity" referring to the field differentials of the affect-and-be-affected-side, and "affect" referring to the registering-of-the-feeling-of-transition-side. The reason for this choice is that it allows for a juggling of agendas. When qualitativeness is being specifically addressed, the word "affect" will tend to be used, exploiting the fact that its resonating-with intensity remains purely qualitative. When the capacity of the field of emergence to lend itself to quantitative capture is being focused on, "intensity" will be used preferentially, because intensity resonates with quantification: it makes perfect sense to speak of "intensive magnitude" (see T77). At times, the phrase "affective intensity" will be used to encompass both sides of the affect/intensity equation. These are not hard and fast rules. A certain forbearance, and terminological agility, will be asked of the reader.