Scholium a. The ideas of equal exchange and getting value for money are supported by the notion of money as measure of value. Money can be treated as the measure of value because it is used as a general equivalent: a yardstick for comparison. With this yardstick, incommensurable things can to be commensurated. A "fair" exchange is when the use-value of a commodity object is judged commensurate with its price. Price provides a standardized third term enabling qualitatively different commodity objects to be compared. This, in theory, enables "rational" consumer choice. The value of a present sum of money can also be compared to a sum in the future, enabling "rational" life choices. The myth of fair exchange is undermined, however, by the concurrent market logic of getting a "good deal." In consumer behavior, the allure of getting more value for your money is actually a stronger engine. This points to the fact that if you scratch the shiny surface of the market idea, the specter of unequal exchange immediately appears. Qualitative understandings of value then return, to shake the foundation of the quantitative vision of value. It takes little reflection to realize that the "goodness" of the good deal is only partially reflected in the price. The "calculation" of what constitutes a good deal does not only involve "rational" considerations. The sense that more value for money is obtained is strongly inflected by the subjective factors of the buyer's dispositions, desires, and idiosyncrasies. "Use-value" is relative, and is impossible to separate from more subjective values such as prestige-value. These subjective factors cannot be commensurated from one consumer to another, or from one purchase to another. They are singularly qualitative "calculations." They are also object lessons in the plasticity of value. The myth of the commensurability of a present sum of money and a future value is also undermined, this time by the tendency of the market itself to exemplify the plasticity of value. This is called "volatility." Volatility is two-headed. It arises from factors endogenous to the market, such as cycles, and crises arising as complexity effects of the market's very mode of operation (speculative bubbles). It also arises from "externalities," which include such things as wars, natural disasters, and weather (or more radically, climate change). These are qualitative changes in the market's outside environment that are secondarily reflected in price changes in the market (Hardt and Negri 2009, 155). Externalities also include price movements linked to valuations that are not exactly outside the market, but are not fundamentally "calculated" in money terms either. The classic example is the added value of location as reflected in real estate prices. Location is valued as an indicator of quality of life.