conversion, of the qualitative differentials of the field of life into statistical quantifications, and from these quantifications back into making a qualitative difference in the field of life. For example, the regulatory norms of healthy living are derived from measurement-data mined from the field of life and statistically processed. The results are then are applied back down onto that field in a way meant to channel – rather than directly model – the population's ways of moving through life, with the aim of improving their quality of life. This is a "channeling," because even though the norms have a certain imperative force, they are not imposed wholesale. There is always a certain optionality to them. With regard to the individual, they are applied as guidelines or nudges. They are also applied environmentally, which is to say in ways that modify the surrounding conditions of life, so that the guidelines suggest themselves implicity, and the nudges go without saying. Biopolitical norms touch on some of the most intimate and everyday life movements, tendencies, habits, and concerns of the population. To the extent that they insinuate themselves into the very warp and woof of the life environment, they tend toward a becoming-immanent to the field of life, thus shading into ontopower. The norms are not straightforwardly applied. Their application has a curve to it. The treatment of the data yields a curve capturing the distribution of variations occurring in the field. The region where most data-points fall is deemed the normal range. We're talking bell curve. The normal range is not pre-given. It is derived, and it can change. It changes as the norms are reapplied to the field in ways that effectively channel life activity in what are considered healthier directions (or fail in that mission). The bell curve for things like heart health, the incidence of cancer, and life expectancy change, and the norms are adjusted accordingly. The bell curve also changes as escapes from the norm, such as the North American opiod epidemic of the 2010s, run away with a significant portion of the population and alters its morbidity and mortality. In disciplinary normation, on the other hand, the norm is meant not to change, because it is based on purportedly timeless moral precepts of uprightness, or in less rigid varieties, on ethical precepts of goodness. They do change, of course, as escapes inevitably pool together into streams of cultural change in spite of normation. But each successive classical disciplinary modeling acts as if this hadn't happened, in denial of the fundamental fact of history (change).