Scholium b. The capture of affect in emotion is effected through narrative means. Narrative is a way of capturing the memory of the past and the memory of the future together, pre-bundled. Narrative extrapolates the realized potentials of the past into a memory of the future according to a more or less predictable linear projection. The future is less preaccelerated by narrative than it is pre-formated by it. Under neoliberalism, the individual has a great degree of autonomy in constructing its own narratives. However, each construction largely falls under the sway of a generic narrative serving as a template (with popular culture as the general repository of generic narrative, and online communities serving as more particularist repositories). The narrative freedom the human-capitalist individual has is to appropriate and customize a generic narrative. Broadly speaking, this goes by the name of self- actualization. The formating power of narrative is a form of quasi-disciplinary channeling. It is quasi-disciplinary because the individual is tasked with folding itself back down on its narrative, so as to restrict itself from wandering too far from its pre- formated arc. When narratives are imposed, as in racial or gender stereotypes, this is experienced as an oppression. This oppressiveness makes explicit the nature of narrative as a mode of power. In the self-actualizing exercise of that power, the individual expresses its "freedom" by recognizing itself in its custom-tailored – "personal" – generic narrative. The individual's sense of its own subjecthood is recognition-based. This means that it is predicated on a performance of self- sameness, imperatively self-affirmed. This sense of self-sameness is demonstrably fuzzy, because narratives are allowed a certain drift or lack of focus. Their failure to sharpen into focus or remain on track is not disavowed, but it is not allowed to undermine the sense of self-recognition, which is overarching. This builds a certain plasticity into the sense of self (-sameness). The central role of the affirmation of self-recognition and putative self-sameness, as a function of generic templates, operates a channeling of life movements. This qualifies this mode of power as a regulatory mode functioning to moderate the escapes toward primary resistant inherent to the neoliberal capitalist field of life. What is lost to the narrative are the qualitative differentials, the formative differences, constituting life's field of emergence. Their tensions and ruguosities are smoothed over by the narrative. They are subsumed as narrative tensions whose only reason for being is to be resolved by the narrative's own tendential movement. They are narratively annulled, without being erased.