Scholium a. Intensity has two imbricated aspects or dimensions, qualitative and quantitative, whose differential has been a continuing concern of these theses because it lies at the heart of economization. We place ourselves in different dimensions of the same event depending on whether we approach it from the causal point of view, or whether consider it as "self-sufficing" (Bergson 2001, 90, 137). To underline that "causal" is not necessarily a linear concept, the word "conditioning" is a better choice. "Conditioning" extends to emergent effects that are not reducible to the sum of their parts, and whose emergence is integrally relational rather than owing to a linear transmission of force. There is always a quantitative dimension to the conditioning of events, imbricated with qualitative dimensions. The nature of that imbrication must be taken into account. For example, pain, as we experience it, is self-sufficing: it directly expresses itself for what it is, just as it is, needing nothing other than itself to explain what is and to make a definite difference in our life. It is a pure quality (Bergson 2001, 90): an immediate experiential life-quality. It is "pure" in the sense that it is irreducible to any quantification of its conditioning factors. "Reducing all qualities to quantities is absurd" (Nietzsche 2003, 91-92). The quality, self-sufficing, is supernumerary. But this does not mean that it can be understood without reference to quantity. The affect of pain is greater when its conditioning factors include a greater number of physical disturbances, meaning that the tissue damage is more extensive (Bergson 2001, 34). The number of the disturbances does not express itself directly in the intensity of the pain. The disturbances express themselves in a greater degree of the same quality. By degree of quality is meant its insistency: a greater degree of pain insists more on its own quality. It claims more emphasis for that quality, and backgrounds other concurrent qualities of experience behind the cry of its