Scholium f. Wonder peaks with the event's culmination, whereas zest and adventure are integrally bound up with its unfolding. Beauty, for its part, abstracts from the event as if it were in suspense (without going so far as to separate it from its intensity). Zest, beauty, wonder, and adventure provide aesthetic categories that might pave the way for the revaluation of values to go beyond normative criteria and judgment. These are felt qualities, not rationalities or ratiocinations. They provide purely qualitiative indexes for the intensive power of becoming expressing itself in the self-forming of events. No account of value can do without criteria of evaluation. These terms provide elements of a vocabulary for the evaluation of the quality of the process coming to expression. They cannot be understood as merely subjective (as individual and personal). They must be recognized as transindividual: as indexing the more-than-humanness of the process' self-driving. Not being categories of judgment, they cannot be mistaken for taste, or personal preference. That they are felt qualities means that if they could be constued as judgments, they would have to be lived judgments (abductions). They come in the thick of things: unmediated. Lived judgments can only be evaluated participatorily and experimentally. Like all qualities, they are such as they are. They cannot be second-guessed. They happen as they happen, or they don't. If they do, they make a pragmatic difference in the subsequent quality of the process as it turns over on itself for another run. Instead of being rationally judged, they must be improvised flush with events. They are a project, not a grid of analysis. Without a concerted tendential direction – also immanent to the unfolding – they are liable to run out of steam, or run afoul of themselves. The contrast discussed earlier between the bullying becoming-reactive of formative forces and their affirmative becoming-active provides a qualitative criterion for the immanent evaluation of tendential direction. Together, these go some way towards an ethico-aesthetics for the revaluation of values. (Massumi 2016)