(Bergson 2001, 34; translation modified, emphasis added). In other words, enveloped in the quality of the event are an excess of unactualized potentials, movements which were preparing themselves to occur, were pressing to be carried out, which would have liked to be (little wills to ontopower), but didn't end up making it into the event's actual composition. Their pressing and preparing is part of the insistence of the event, even if many of the pressing potentials do not actually take part in it. It is the expressed quality of the intensive envelopment of these pressing potentials that distinguishes this co-motion of tendencies from the quantitative and extensive side of the event. In the starling example, each bird at every moment had to be poised for a nearly instantaneous tack or swerve. When there are ten birds, the quality of the movement is more regular and less particular, so the potential moves that must be in preparation (in preacceleration) at each instant are fewer. This is reflected in each individual's flying style, and simultaneously in the mannerism of the flock. In the flock of ten thousand, each bird has to be braced for quicker and more variable movements. They cannot not feel this, flush with their movements. The feeling shades off into the field of emergence, to a level where the qualitative differentials between the movements an individual bird is poised for shade off into infinitesimal contrasts between potential movements. At this level of bare activity, each bird is braced into a heightened state of affective intensity, immanent to the event. Each embodies a quantum of the event's dipping down to the  infinitesimal level of its field of emergence. Each individual expresses the global intensity of the event to a degree corresponding to the comprehensiveness of its dipping to the infinitesimal level of potential (depending on its skill, the alacrity of its reflexes, its indivdual physiological traits, and its health). It is not only that the overall movement of the flock is less intense: the qualitative difference in degree of intensity also goes all the way down, to the level of in-braced potential (the immanent outside). It is the manner in which it goes all the way down that correlates with the event's intensive magnitude, regardless of the number of elements in play.