Scholium a. The qualitative goes all the way down, until it melds with event-potential. Event-potential is supernumerary: it is of the nature of surplus-value. It is also superqualitative: packing together an ultimately indistinct multiplicity of qualitative differentials in a way that does erase. Because they are not erased, each roil and tumble integrally reshuffles the field, shaking out a certain differental spread of potentials that rise back up to toward the surface of the event, where they are more distinctly felt, press harder, and thus become more accessible for actualization. There is no bedrock quantitative level from which quality emerges. The "bedrock" is the churning sea of immanent potential that is the field of life as bare activity, from which the two streams of the quantitative and qualitative spill: a potential cannot actualize without taking on extension and magnitude, but each move, each actualization, also spins off pure quality, affectively enveloping intensity. In the actualization of the event, quantity and quality are two sides of the event at every level, all the while remaining distinct event-dimensions. The qualitative on one level coils up into and is boosted onto the next. The qualitative snakes up the levels climbing the steps of its own event-dimension, culminating in the global affect expressing the quality of the event as a whole (the feeling of a degree of temperature, or the beauty of the overall topological figure of the flock of starlings). Likewise for quantity, culminating in a numerical extraction. Quality coils with quality, and quantity with quantity. Neither "causes" the other. Neither is epiphenomenal. One is not more real than the other. They are really different, aboriginal dimensions of the same event-conditioning. They co-condition the event. They do not mix, and yet their emergent effects fuse into the singularity of the event's taking off. A suggestive image for this is the caduceus (the staff used as a symbol of the medical profession): two inter-coiled snakes that do not touch, yet nevertheless rise up to take wing together.