Scholium a. For example, instead of pre-designating a certain share of the profit for each individual, individuals' activity of creating and fulfilling smart contracts could be tracked by an accounting smart contract that allocates tokens based on how much someone contributes. The tokens could be in a cryptocurrency that interfaces with Bitcoin or national currencies, so that it could be cashed out. This could conceivably function even in the absence of a saleable end-product. That would be possible if the cryptocurrency had a recognized value on the speculative cryptocurrency market, underwritten, as all currencies are ultimately in any case, by investor confidence. In other words, it would be backed by affect more than by a product-linked tie-in to the "real" economy. This would gain the collective practice a certain autonomy from the capitalist teleology of the marketable product, but at the price of buying into the speculative logic of the financial markets, with all of the volatility that comes along with surplus-value of flow and its tendential levitation from the productive economy. The interference between incentivization by individual gain and the collaborative production of surplus-values of life would continue to be a factor. Alternatively, tokens could be used internally to the collaborative platform. The tokens amassed could be "invested" in decisions. The propositions in support of which the most tokens were put on the table would be the onces decided upon. This has two draw- backs. First, it sneaks back in the equation between labor-time and monetary value that lies at the basis of the capitalist exploitation of live activity: the reward of tokens would correlate to quantity of input actions, which would in turn correlate to the amount of time invested in them. Secondly, it would channel this capture of life-time into a re-hierchization of the decision-making playing field. By putting your tokens on the table, you would essentially be buying unequal decision-making power with the capture of your vitality.