Scholium b. Token strategies also tend to operationalize a form of value that has not been mentioned up to now, but is fundamental to capitalism: use-value. The praise of use-value is often sung in alter-economy communities as a way out of capitalism. This is dangerously naïve. Use-value, it is true, is qualitative: "it is  conditioned by the physical properties of the commodity, and has no existence apart from it" (Marx 1976, 126). However, use-value only functions economically to the extent that it "metabolizes" as (is processually converted into) exchange-value (Marx 1976, 196). The three-fold definition of money, and the correlation between quantity of labor- time and quantity of value, are complicit with use-value to the extent that it metabolizes as an economic factor. Measures may be taken to prevent use-value from fully metabolizing with exchange-value (as in skill-sharing networks and other sharing economies). But nothing can prevent it from being haunted by money, the market, and the essentially extortionist correlation between labor-time and value. These slip back in in informal assessments of how "equal" or "fair" a sharing exchange had been, even if such assessment is discouraged. In addition, use-value is essentially normative. It is bound up with already-formed functions  having conventional values in one or another systemic context (related to technical systems, productive industries, service industries, or cultural industries, with the definition of "use" varying by domain). By virtue of this systems-participation, a formed function carries a certain regulatory force, even outside its dedicated functional context, and in spite of the best efforts to break that link to power. How could the judgment of usefulness not carry such a force? All of this is part and parcel of the work paradigm so integral to capitalism (even where it is not in force in a full-fledged way as a work ethic). Tokens could theoretically be used in entirely different ways, potentially skirting around use-value, by adopting gaming models. However, gaming typically privileges a stimulus-response structure that re-performs the dominant economy's individual transaction-exchange paradigm, even as it repurposes it for the production of a certain surplus-value of life: fun. Fun is a kind of surplus-value of life that is well-known to neoliberal capitalism and well-articulated with it, even to the point of playing a regulatory function in the life of human capital.