— Speculative strategy f. Product. No product separate from the process would guide the process teleologically. Emergent collectivity would be valued as the product. By emergent is meant that its taking-form is an event-form. This would be an occurrent value. The events might answer to a variety of already-existing arenas, with which they link transversally, resonate at a distance with, or which they parasitize. Art, education, and activism are the key examples. Products might well be produced – artworks, books, participatory learning platforms, aesthico-political activist interventions –  but they would not be treated as the product. The product would be the continuing of the creative process. Any products other than the self-driving of the creative process engine would be experienced as happy incidentals. A directly collective product of the highest importance would be the spinning-off, from the self- formative movement of the process itself, of exemplary techniques of relation. These would be ways of conditioning, triggering, and sustaining emergent collectivity. Techniques of relation would be stored as process seeds that could be replanted to move the process through another iteration. They could also be gifted to other collective processes. Their collection would be the only store of value that would animate the process. It would amount to a store of potential. The techniques would be at the same time action traces of past events and forerunners (preaccelerators) of future creative variations on them. They would be a qualitative index of the power of the process to turn itself over into its own continuance. In other words, they would index the power of its continuum. The actual items stored might take the form of suggestive action recipes, improvisational event scripts, or supports that could be used for re-priming process. This could include preservation or documentation of the conditioning factors that went into past events (materials, images, sounds words, concepts, code, media). Their collection would constitute an archive, the more multi- media in nature the better. The processual potential they indexed, as it turned over to reanimate the process in new variations, would constitute an anarchive: an excess- over the archive fueling the continued self-production of the process as an autonomous subjectivity-without-a-subject. The anarchive is a surplus-value of storage. Through its anarchiving, the emergent collectivity would grow and prolong itself into a singular varietal culture.