— Speculative strategy k. Decision. There would be no formal decision-making, whether consensus-based or voting-based. Consensus-based decision-making has been experimented with for many decades among alternative political and social movements and has been resurgent in recent years in the assembly-based movements coming out of the Arab Spring and Occupy. Conceived as a form of direct democracy, often under the anarchist banner, in practice it easily leads to paralysis: the despotism of the most cantankerous or the least adventurous. Since an individual (or in "consensus-seeking high majority rule" models, a small minority) can block any action, it usually leads not to anarchic adventure and effervesence, but to least- common-denominator ennui. This is not so different from the net effect of traditional majority-rule voting, which weeds out exactly the kind of outlier tendencies that an anarchic process needs to fold into its varietal culture and nurture, encouraging them to unfold and carry themselves to their highest power, in self-acting relational autonomy. Voting destroys collective process (except those whose reason for being is the exercise of normative regulatory power). It stages a simulacrum of collectivity, requiring that individuals act utterly alone but at the same time. What that yields is not an emergent relational spin-off effect, but a statistical aggregation-effect. This is a use of quanitification procedures that is pronouncedly de-creative. In an anarcho- communist process, decision-making would be truly self-organizing. The positive orienting power of attractors would be used. Decisions would be lured into self- organizing. Anyone would be empowered to throw down a lure, in the form of a propositon for a gathering of the collective energies. Any decision resulting would be affective and improvisational rather than deliberative and procedural. If the lure fell on fertile ground and succeeded in gathering creative momentum, the proposition would move over the threshold toward actualization. This would require that propositions be offered in the spirit of a gift, without the obligation of payback: the gift freed from the dialectic of the counter-gift. This willingness to offer without a guarantee of return would be the core quality of the processual ethos. It would qualify the process as, fundamentally, a participation-based gift economy. The generosity expected would not be styled as a personal character trait, but as a quality of the collective process moving the individual, and moving through the individual: a surplus-value of care. No assumptions would be made about "human nature" and whether it is fundamentally "good" or "evil" by normative standards. Such debates are beside the processual point. The ethical quality of the process would pertain not to the individuals per se, but to the nature of the subjectivity-without-a-subject embodied in the always-emergent collectivity. The process would leverage the power of the impersonal (native to the immanent outside). The possibilities for distributed agency offered by interactive digital platorms are key to mobilizing the self-organizing, anarchic potential of surplus-value of care. The mechanism for the self-organizing of decision would hinge on a collective attunement on the part of the participants to the moments when the process is felt to be reaching a threshold where a proposition is ripe to tip over into its actualization in an event. An algorithmic means would have to be found to register the fluctuations in the affective intensity composed by the tendencies in play, in order to make the approach to these tipping-points palpable. In other words, a digital affect-o-meter registering intensity would have to be invented.