Here also, the digital platform can assist. Processual operators (basically, glorified bots) could be used to introduce strategic doses of contingency and whimsy into the interactions. These would be relational, both in the sense that they would be responding to qualitative differentials tendentially churning in the interactions, and in the sense that they would operate as cues or triggers that might modulate the interaction consequent to their intervention in ways that were not anticipatable, thus bringing less accessible potentials into relief. These fabulatory creatures would act as punctual potential-churns, introducing a nonhuman element of play. Their ability to play to creative effect would depend on their being tied to algorithmic analysis running in the background that would be capable of detecting and indexing creative differentials constituting qualitative tendencies. This requires effectively turning the tables on quantity, commiting quantitatively-based (digital) analysis to the mining not of numbers or statistics per se, but of qualitative potentials. The success of the affect- o-meter involved in decision-tipping would depend on this as well. What would be needed is what Nora Bateson has called "warm data," calling for the development of techniques for harvesting "transcontextual information about the interrelationships that integrate a complex system" (Bateson 2017). The invention and operationalization of warm data is absolutely fundamental to the entire economization project. The process could only create an economy that did not end up resubsuming surplus-value of life under the drive for economic surplus-value if ways are found of indexing qualitative potential by quantitative means without annulling it. The economization would have to run on affective intensities affirmed for their own value. When this is achieved, the very nature of measurement will change. Now snaking through the coils of the process, integrated into its most intimate operations, measurement has been converted into a qualitative conditioning factor, so dynamically entangled with the creative process as to contribute to changing the nature of what it measures: it becomes a dimension of the qualitative becoming running through the creative process engine. Existing qualitative analysis tools might be conscripted to the task, to which machine learning might also be adaptable. The economization tools would also have to pivot on suprapersonal and infrapersonal movements, and the differentials between them, rather than centering on inputs, opinions, or tendencies attributable to individual humans. All analysis would have to be carried out in keeping with the transversal modus operandi of the process and the transindividual ethos in-forming it. A critical concern would be to register the way in which sub-tendencies have insisted on themselves, even if they were not brought to full expression. A surplus of anarchival potential is found in the differential between these un-self-accomplished sub-tendential insistencies and the global emergence- effect they contributed to, if only in the way they ended up being skirted around or thwarted (the way in which they were "negatively prehended," Whitehead would say, recalling that negative prehesion "expresses a bond"; 1978, 41). These also-rans represent a horde of left-over forerunner potentials that can be reactivated to make an eventful difference. They lurk in the process, and can be brought back to bear.