Fabulation. Say that algorithmic techniques were found to index potential. What they would register would be qualitative differentials preaccelerating emergent tendencies. This would require a mode of mathematization beyond counting. The count of tendencies is largely irrelevant for processual purposes, for the simple reason that the potential in-forming them is supernumerary. To get at this supernumeracy of potential, the quantitative analysis would have to bear on differentials as such: spreads, contrasts, ratios, frequencies, distributions, vectors converging and diverging, varying distances. The qualitative characters of the items in the online archive (images, sounds, words, etc.) would be analyzed to extract these differentials in way designed to be indicative of fluctuating relation. This would put the machinic finger on the pulse of the power of the continuum as it is in-forming a taking-form destined to separate itself out from the flow as an evental drop of processual experience. The aim would be to register the anarchival movement of surplus-value of life at the emergent level. One possibility (doubtless there are many) might be that the differentials would be rendered in the form of a topological figure that would fold into new shapes each time the pulse was taken. From the torsions of the figure, vector values could be extracted that would register the fluctuations of the affective intensities coursing through the online interactions over time. This would amount to a derivative measure of process, indexing the flow of creative activity, treated as an intensive magnitude. To ensure that the measurement captures the creative advance, certain passages across thresholds of taking-form could be given special weight: tipping points where a proposition gels, where a proposition passes into off-line actualization, and where the action-traces of actualized events are returned to the online platform to further the anarchive. This is where, pragmatically, the two-sidedness of intensive magnitude comes in. Internal to the online platform, the creative process engine would continue as usual, using its suite of relationally oriented smart contracts, processual operators, and other tools, oblivious to the mathematical harvest going on in parallel. The mathematical indexing would parallel the magmatic flow of the creative advance. It would render, into a quantifiable expression, the power of its continuum as it peaks and irrupts in discrete relational events of collective experimentation, to continue its turnover across them. From the outside perspective, refracting the quantiative expression that has been extracted from the process back onto it, this "magma" of event-potential could be looked upon differently: it could be thought of as an un-unitized money mass. Say there is a cryptocurrency associated with the project. The quantifications of the fluctuations of creative potentials taking-form could used to "mine" units of the currency. A certain number of units of currency would be minted at regular intervals, indexed to the magmatic flow and its irruption into eventful takings-form. Call the cryptocurrency "Occurrency" (in keeping with the evental nature of the project). Occurrency would not be used internal to the creative process engine. There would be a digital membrane separating the creative collaborative process from its minting of conventional economic values, and through them, its participation in the larger economic environment. Occurrency would lurk on the outside the membrane, paralleling the qualitative value-producing process as its quantitative flipside. On this side, the aspect of intensive magnitude that lends itself to quantification would be operative. Internally to the process, the other side of intensive magnitude – where it dips into the playing-out of potential composed by qualitative differentials – would be operative. The membrane would exist only to manage the two-sidedness of intensive magnitude, operating as an economizing filter. The continuum of magmatic potential would filter through the membrane, appearing for that purpose as a money mass undergoing unitization. The unitization would convert the inside flow of the process into an outside (oc)currency. Outside the membrane, Occurrency would fulfill the three-fold function of money. This economization membrane would be the only way in which the creative process engine would be enclosed. In other respects, the process would be radically open – to new participants, to the external world of off-line events, and to the immanent outside of creative potential. Occurrency would be liminal in relation to the creative process engine, and interstitial in relation to other alter-economic spaces. The creative process engine would exist in an environment of other alternative "economic spaces," each with their own dedicated cryptocurrencies operating along whatever lines their collective, commons-oriented projects required. Each currency would be convertible into a surrounding currency that would be interoperable with all of them.