easier to imagine the end of the world than the end of capialism captures our contemporary condition, then a touch of madness and concerted lure to the impossible is exactly what is needed if the end of the world is to be avoided – and the way we are going, it is looking likely that the end of the world will coincide with the end of capitalism, through capitalism's own madness: its predicating its process on endless growth (which is how it figures the future-impossible that it destructively takes as its lure). The creative process engine envisioned here would not judge or oppose alter- economic spaces negotiating their strategic duplicity differently, even in ways that reintroduce certain market features (such as tokens). It would enter into an ecology of practices with them. Cohabiting a symbiotic environment with them, it would act, by its very presence in their midst, as an ongoing anarcho-communist propaganda of the deed. Neither would it demand purism of the individuals participating in the project. No one would have to be "all in." Straddling economic domains would be the rule. Ecologically speaking, a complex field of intertwined alter-economies of different kinds (sharing economies, gift economies, local currencies, etc.) would be the most robust. While the various pores grew and combined to form a complex, expanding, prefiguratively postcapitalist field, continued participation in the dominant capitalist economy would likely be a necessity of survival for most participants. The alter- economic approach itself would enter into an ecology of practices with anti-capitalist political movements choosing other grounds of action. Movements privileging the micropolitical would be most symbiosis-friendly. Strategic forays into macropolitical interventions – approaches that are demands-oriented rather than prefigurative- process-oriented, and prescriptive/programmatic rather than affective/intensive – would not be shied away from on principle. There would be no hard-and-fast principles. Pragmatism would be the order of the day – on the condition that it remained overall a speculative pragmatism tensoring toward the invention of a postcapitalist future. Different species of activism and intervention would cohabit an ecology of alter-powers, supported by a growing culture, fertilized by a relational