Scholium. In the design of cryptocurrencies, an appeal is often explicitly made to the three-fold definition of money. This articulation of the currency model backgrounds the way in which so much of the appeal of crytocurrencies is in fact their speculative dynamic. What gives them their momentum is their ability to run away with themselves, becoming veritable financial markets. They become commodities themselves (as do national currencies on the mainstream international money market). More than mere currency, they become financial instruments, ripe for speculation: in a word, they become capital. This is clear in the history of Bitcoin, which has seen successive speculative bubbles and busts. In the avalanche of new cryptocurrencies coming in the wake of Bitcoin beginning around 2015, the "initial coin offering" (ICO) began to take on a more and more prominent role. Modeled on the initial stock offering the ICO treats cryptocurrency in analogy with stocks, in other words as a form of equity (as capital). Equity refers to the "underlying" asset from which surplus-value and profit turnover is derived (although this very concept is called into question by the way financial markets run). As is the case with any process of quantitative surplus-value production, this speculative dynamic adds an element of exploitation. With Bitcoin, those who are in a position to own the means of production (the increasingly exhorbitant computing power needed to "mine" the coin), win. There is a jarring disconnect between the hypercapitalist speculative dimension of cryptocurrency and its exploitative underpinning, and the accompanying libertarian rhetoric of money equality for all, in independence from evil banks and "fiat" money, that has been the dominant legitimating narrative for it. The libertarian discourse deceptively brackets the entire concept of capital – practicing it to the hilt while purporting to act in the defense of the market, traditionally defined in terms of fair-value exchange, open equally to all, and fair to each (see also T89, T90). Certain alter-economy projects like Faircoin (https://fair.coop/faircoin/) work to counteract the libertarian cast of traditional blockchain currencies by creating a dedicated cryptocurrency for use among cooperatives which does away with the mining model and discourages speculation, in an attempt to restrict the currency as much as possible to a simple market model serving the micropayment needs of nontraditional collective economic actors