Scholium c. The move beyond the labor theory of value is present in embryonic tendency in Marx's own work. The concept of machinic surplus-value as proposed here radicalizes Marx's analysis in his famous "Fragment on Machines" (Marx 1993, 670-711). Marx analyzes automation as the objectification of the "general intellect," whereby "social knowledge" becomes "a direct force of production" (1993, 706). More than that, "powers of social production have been produced, not only in the form of knowledge, but also as immediate organs of … the real life process" (ibid.). The "immediate organs" are automated machines: "self-acting mules," he wryly calls them (ibid.). Although Marx himself does not go so far, it is clear, from the vantage point of the digital future he did not alive to see, that when the distributed ("overall") movements of the "real life process" become" a "direct force" autonomously driving the production of surplus-value – thanks to the self-acting code mules let loose upon the world by Silicon Valley to work the global data mines – the correlation of surplus-value to "necessary labor-time" is attentuated to the breaking point. Marx himself says as much: "Capital itself is the moving contradiction, [in] that it presses to reduce labor time to the minimum, while it posits labor time, on the other side, as sole measure and source of wealth. Hence it diminishes labor time in the necessary form so as to increase it in the superfluous form" (ibid.; emphases added). Today, the increase in the superfluous form (unanchored from "real labor" and "real wealth") comes most dramatically in the nonhuman form of the automated data-mining of our online movements on social media and the internet in general. Here, the diminishment of necessary labor-time tends to the infinitesimal limit. The human input is contracted into the thinness of a click. With each click, we are hard at "work," even in leisure, for the production of capitalist surplus-value, all the while absorbed in our real-life process and its intensifying relational reticulation through the ever-densifying social media.