Scholium e. The digital automation of financial trading intensifies the role of surplus- value of flow by accelerating data analysis and as a consequence the speed of turnover of financial transactions. This boosts capitalism into hyperdrive. Surplus- value production effervesces. Machinic surplus-value production overall asserts greater and greater autonomy from its would-be human masters' conscious control. It is important not to forget that other forms of surplus-value are co-involved in this phenomenon. There are always decision points or pressure points where human intervention is desired or necessitated. Given the superhuman complexity of the movements under way, and the inhuman speed of their turnover, the intervention cannot employ the means the human has traditionally used to define its exceptionalism: deliberative ratiocination; methodical rationalism. Both day-traders and floor traders speak of heightened or altered states of attention and perception, often articulated in terms of "gut feeling" or intuition (Lee/Martin 2016, 79, 90, 134, 271). These are surplus-values of perception. They capitalize on a self-acting excess-over the normal state of perception and the manner in which, under normal circumstance, it feeds deliberative thought and decision-making. The gut generation of surplus-values of perception, directly articulated with the complex movements of finance with a view to the extraction surplus-values of flow from them, is a way in which the human strives to become equal to the machine. The "human" intervention must strive to enact a becoming-machinic of the human (paradoxically, through intuition). The human is annexed to the machinic process. This is an exemplary case of the "real subsumption" by capital of human life and capacities whose general form, at the core of neoliberalism, is human capital. The neoliberal concept of human capital is explicit about its becoming-machinic. Human capital, in the words of one of neoliberalism's founding fathers, is based on “an all-inclusive concept of technology” that encompasses the "innate abilities of man” (Schultz 1971, 10). The individual human being becomes a humanoid vector of machinic surplus-value production: a two-legged self-acting mule.