missing their mark”, re-direct the vectors  of inter-subjective communication (the
‘full frontal’ of face-to-face  dialogue and  of traditional cinematic perception) towards the rhythmicity of feeling. The virtuality of all that is happening somewhere else, behind your  back, on your  side or beyond the visual  focus of the stage, becomes  a vertiginous sensation of creative ‘more-thanness’, to use Manning’s words. In the detoured intersubjectivity of the performance, the inconsistency of all that is repeatedly missed, non-actualised and non-realised acquires at least as much  (if not more) importance, than  what  is clearly perceived. Despite its having been ‘eliminated’ (or, for Whitehead, negatively prehended), this vague relational potentiality is what  constitutes the very rhythmic ground of the performance, constantly facing the perceiving subject
with  the challenge of dealing with  an ‘alterity’ or an ‘externality’ which  is part  of
its own self but can only appear in sensation, as the scar of a missed encounter. The relation also needs  to be ‘missed’. To understand the aesthetic significance of the perceptual and communicational gap as a potential moment of creative self- distancing and  sensory accumulation, Thain draws on Guattari’s notion  of an “ethico-aesthetic paradigm”, highlighting how the de-subjectified impersonality of qualitative change brought about  by the very format of the intermedial performance can help us to think  life in the era of the audio-visual archive. The juxtaposition of multiple perspectives allowed by the mixed  use of video- installation and  live performance, and by the scattering of perception all around the audience’s visual  range,  obfuscates spectatorial clarity with  the halo of an emerging difference. The tension between what  is clearly seen and what  cannot be distinguished or articulated realises  a collaborative non-relation between the actual  and  the virtual dimensions of the performance, whose  main  force resides precisely in the un-communicability or the affective  break between the seen and the said, or between the visible and  the non-visible, the speakable and the ineffable.  In this break,  sensation (or rhythm) appears as the “force of the interstice” or of the in-between that presses for, but does not need,  to actualise itself: “Rhythm (...) should be understood not as a unitary synthesis but as an activation of force in the interstitial gap that brings  things into contact  with  each other,  a non-relation that is relation.”