We would like to propose a catalogue essay to be collectively written by a subset of the SenseLab research-creation network. We have brought together seven scholars whose principal practice is writing but who have a longstanding involvement with art, as theorists or as makers, and whose work has dealt centrally with issues of time and futurity. We will generate the essay using a round-robin technique based on the format of the interview. Participants will take turns generating a question or elements of a response. Each successive contribution will build constructively upon the last, in a spirit of affirmation rather than critique. The construction process will not remain linear. Each author will have the choice to make insertions into or modify the existing text. When we have judged that the text has taken a sufficiently ample conceptual arc (which will require 15-20 pages, we estimate), we will continue the round-robin to fine-tune and edit the text. The aim of the revision process will be to weave the ideas together across the full-length of the text to produce an emergent group voice that incorporates the singularity of each authors' thinking, but creates a integral voice that belongs to no one in particular. In the end, we may retain the artifice of the interview format, resulting in a semblance of an interview. Or, more likely, we will experiment with the final product as a group to create an emergent format that captures the intensity of the discussion and conveys the dynamic of the process. This would likely involve experimenting with page layout and design. This project is one of a number of collective writing and publication-design experiments the SenseLab has undertaken or is planning, as an extension of its ten-year old practice of group-based experimental creative practice. The participants in this project have been in dialogue together for many years around issues of time and creativity, in the context of the SenseLab's ongoing reading group, work-in-progress sessions, and local and international research-creation events.