I return to JND in order to ask what  the consequences might  be for the forms  of experience that  arise based  on such  a formation of metastability in the joint performativity of human (i.e., vital)  and  technical individuation? The aim  of an artistic  project  like  JND  is to make  possible and  experiential certain  liminal  or threshold states  within the media-technical and  vital-living-human environment. These  liminal  states  produce different affects  between the  technical object  and the associated milieu  that  oscillate  between, on the  one hand, continuity and  on the  other,  sudden ruptures or  gaps  in the  process of dephasing/individuation where human perception becomes,  perhaps for  only  moments, inaccessible to direct,  “felt  experience” (to use  Eugene Gendlin’s  term).  This  kind  of break  or gap  describes the  ways  in  which  an  individual’s  self  conscious access  to  their own  processes of individuation is destabilized and,  simultaneously, how  a pre- individual reality bursts forth – that is, a reality  that exposes  the individual, if only briefly,  to a moment in which  the  self slips  away.  Simondon is not  particularly clear   on   what   the   pre-individual  is.  Is  this   pre-individual  state   one   of  a primordial consciousness, a limit experience (as Foucault described it) or simply the experience of losing  what  one is? The body  is still present but the self that  is part   of  that   body   is  placed  in  question.  In  other   words, in  the  moment of dephasing, a break  occurs that sends  the individual across the threshold in which suddenly the  pre-individual state  emerges, even  within the  reduced time  frame of an artistic  event.  Despite enabling conditions (in both  code as well as through the bodies  of individual participants), the emergence of such threshold states  can never   be  truly   planned  in  advance  by  the  designer.  Rather,   the  conditions temporally emerge as the  result  of the  very  recurrent causality or coupling that Simondon ascribes  between the technical object and  the associated milieu.