Irwin in order to not to model research-creation, but like Murphie, to begin to suggest technics that must be explored in their singularity. Beginning from the claim that “thought in motion is a creative proposition for thought at work”, Manning lays out a series of imperatives (Lure the feeling! Make multiple sense! Know not what a body can do!) where movement is the site of a creative practice of “thinking-feeling” in order to “activate the conceptual at work in the pre- articulation of the experiential”. To take Tarkovsky as an example of such a technic at work, Manning deploys a kind of “editing-with” in her use of these examples—not an imposition from without but an attentive response to the virtual potential each possesses. This mode of editing is at once evocative and provocative, and asks us to carefully mind the gap such editing entails. In this essay, Manning places herself into the milieu: “begin with the interval and admit it into experience. Rethink what counts as art, as practice, as thought, as writing, as politics. The relation is as real as anything else – it is the associated milieu through which all else comes into contact.”  In “attending to the circumstances”, Manning argues for the centrality of feeling to the rigor of thought, for a rigor of feeling to match that of thought.  When sensation shades and colours perception, the potential for relation is expanded. Manning argues for relationality in place of a more limited notion of interactivity.  She quotes video artist Amanda Baggs, to describe the potential such an expanded perception allows: “Far from being purposeless, the way that I move is an ongoing response to what is around me. Ironically, the way that I move when responding to everything around me is described as ‘being in a world of my own’, whereas if I interact with a much more limited set of responses and only react to a much more limited part of my surroundings people claim that I am ‘opening up to true interaction with the world”.  In her own rhythmic editing, Manning creates a set of propositions that seek to put thought into