their own limit (2002b: 64-65). Rather  than  allowing us to distinguish and recognise a form, the abstract (or mathematical, or algorithmic) line of connection between the frames/forms constructs, with its interruptions or cuts, a sort of Cubist  synthetic re-composition of movement in its continuity and  speed, according to a purely mathematical intuition. ‘Difference’, as determination or distinction, the emergence of singularity as such, is “no longer  a form but an abstract line acting directly upon the soul”,  a rigorous abstract line “fed by chiaroscuro” (Deleuze, 2001: 28-29). This determination of singularity can possess  more  or less distinction: in this sense that Cubist
painting could  also be expressive of the different forces of variation of a single line of movement, as if the chiaroscuro had retained its profound in- determination, despite the high precision of the segmented sections.  A paradoxically distinct chiaroscuro playing with  the singularity and in- visibility of motion. And  the distinction of the line can become  even sharper and  precise,  obeying the mathematical order and  the digital logic of the cut, as in De Bemels’ digital video.  In this sense, each single digital frame  contains, or envelops and  freezes,  a line of movement at a remarkable point.  The digital
cut is associated to a perceptual caesura, or an affective interval which  allows the emergence of the different levels of a unique sensation in one single frame, and  of the different intensities of a movement along  a single line. [9] But if the artistic  question posed to technology is to make its mathematical functioning available as a creative means for the generation of a different,
‘singular’ sensitivity to movement, philosophical reflection finds itself in a
different position. The creative challenge becomes  a metaphysical question, an exhortation to the technical machine to take its own sensitivity, its
‘computational faculty’ to its ‘nth’ level, transcendentalising and forcing itself
to the point  of computing what  can only be computed (and tnot coded, perceived or understood), in other  words, the ‘incomputable’.