In Deleuze’s words, “for the variation-Figure, a witness-Figure is needed” (2002c:135). The compositional role of this structural Figure is to negotiate a passage, but in the video  the passage does not happen as a linear  movement from the more dynamic temporality of video  to its dissolution into the stillness of the stone  (the church wall can never  be defined as being more static than  Bacon’s coloured fields swarming with  chromatic potentials), or vice versa.  Rather,  the aim (and  effect) is to make  time appear as a relation between two varieties of temporal extension, the stone wall and the video image,  with  their respective different capacities of material contraction. De Bemels’ work  shows  all its originality and difference in its way to ‘reveal’ time. A first important temporal differentiation obviously comes from the use of the digital tool and its oscillation between cuts and  their qualitative
potential, between calculation and its effects. Technically speaking, the special
effects,). Apart and  together with  these specific temporal techniques, another important structural peculiarity of Lilith is represented by the installation format, and by the specific setting and  materials chosen  for it. A wall is obviously apparently (or ‘apparitionally’) different from a digital video.  But the rule of discontinuity in repetition is not a prerogative of the digital:  every physical entity  is characterised by a repetition of composing elements, accompanied by a contractile power which,  in the repetition, is able to retain the previous element while the successive appears. All living organisms are for example made  of contracted water, earth,  light and air, and  retain  within themselves, or contract, every past moment in the form of an expectation of a future yet to come, molecule after molecule, atom after atom (Deleuze, 2001:
70-79). In Bergsonian terms,  this is what  Deleuze defines as ‘habit’, a ‘passive
synthesis’ of time, a contraction of past and future into the lived  present of duration. An organic or inorganic body can thus  be defined as a sum of contractions, retentions and  expectations, or of what  Deleuze defines as
‘contemplations’ of elements, and  the ‘auto-satisfactions’ of those contemplations. In this sense, every body,  even that of a stone, is ‘habitual’ and contemplative, in the sense of its being composed by a series of repeated habitual contemplations and contractions. In other  words, stone possesses its own way to contract the present, as the repetition of a number of contracted instants (instants of oxygen,  hydrogen, light and  air); since the duration of the present varies  according to the contractile range,  we can ‘imagine’ the stone’s present as one with a very distended duration, giving  the impression of an almost  frozen  time, with  respect to the quick succession of the video’s light particles. The impression left by the contraction is in both cases a qualitative