direct  allusion to 19th century French  scientist  Étienne-Jules Marey,  whose breakthrough  creation,  chronophotography,  anticipated  the   motion  picture. Marey  was particularly interested in the origins  of motion and  how motion could be   drawn  and   measured.    The   connection  between  Marey,   the   video   by Moilanen, and  the  totality of Aaltokoski’s choreography also takes  place  on the wider plane  of visualizing metamorphosis.   Scott  Bukatman  has  drawn a line from Marey’s chronophotographs to morphing in film.   Bukatman states  how morphing in  film  shares  something with  time-lapse photography:  images  that record change over time (daguerrotypes and  serial exposures by Marey)  precede the  cinematic developments (2000, 227).   Furthermore, in connection to Marey, Erin  Manning emphasizes the  role  of  machines as  generating new  modes of thinking and  perception: “Marey’s process of repetition and  difference leads  to transductions where movement machines become  movements of thought, which in turn  become  machinic perceptions” (2009, 110).    Moilanen has edited Aaltokoski’s otherwise smooth movements into  a proliferating series  of spasms. The  first  part   of  the  video  is  composed of  jerky  clips  reminiscent of  Marey, displaying Aaltokoski executing similar  movements as  on  stage.  References to Marey  are  references to a previous moment in time  when new  technologies of movement studies generated not just machinic thoughts and  perceptions but also a visualized imagination of an inner,  i.e. deep,  reality  beneath the skin.
The  video   then   becomes   a  collage,   with   a  male   figure   in  front   of  colour- manipulated X-ray images  of different plants and  bones,  echoing in this way  the somagrams of medical diagnostics.  Rapidly changing footage  also includes techniques of  image  manipulation when Aaltokoski’s  face  is  morphed into  a green  lizard.  Both Marey  with  his chronophotographic rifle and  Moilanen with her  video  equipment attempt to show  how  movement functions, as it were,  by trying to find a way underneath the skin.   Yet, in Deep this attempt is challenged by  the  performance since  the  ‘live  performer’  just  stays  on  the  floor  without moving whereas the  images  and  rhythms on  the  screen  are  pulsing full of life. Even  though the  performer is live (yet  immobile) and  the  images  are  recorded and  manipulated (yet  highly  mobile),  both  of these  players, as Deleuze would point  out,  ‘take up  and  lay down rhythms,’ however different in quality, scale,