Even so, immortality projects  have  also been  booming in the past  20 years  from within   well-established  bastions  of   contemporary   knowledge   production. Aubrey  de   Grey,   a  computer  technician  in  the   Department  of  Genetics   at Cambridge who describes himself  as a “theoretical gerontologist,” claims that for a $100 million  USD, his Institute of Biomedical Gerontology will be able to make his Strategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence  real (Klerkx 2005: 38-41). Futurologist Ray Kurzweil and  nutritionist Terry Grossman have developed a “bridge to a bridge” strategy for immortality that  uses  available technology to slow ageing  as a bridge to better  technologies they  are convinced will eventually become  available (Kurzweil 2004). Kurzweil takes 250 daily  dietary supplements. He  also  recommends genetic   tests  to  determine the  cancers   to  which   one  is susceptible and  the therapies to which  they will best respond, as well as nanotechnologies, for example, to replace  the digestive tract with  tiny robots  that deliver optimum  nutrition from  food  directly  to  organs and   tissues. Technoscience-oriented  groups   aimed   at   limitless   life   extension   abound, including for example Extropians, Betterhumans, and  various Institutes of Singularity, Cryonics, Immortality,  etc.  (“Extropy Institute”). Though debates rage   as  to  the   scientific   legitimacy  of  these   projects,   they   have   insinuated themselves into contemporary culture through universities, media and  the Web. Typical   of  modern  technoscience, these   approaches  assume  that   aging   is  a technical challenge, that  somatic  (i.e. bodily)  engineering is all that  is needed to combat   it,  and  that  technoscience inherently  tends   towards the  better.   These projects  therein fail to reverse destiny, instead spinning us ever faster around the empty circle  of  technoscience. They  fail  to  see  that  longevity is  not  simply a technical issue of bodily  engineering.