What ties these three dimensions—the military/logistical, the business/organizational, and the creative/medial—of the contemporary network together is the extent to which networking has become less a system and infrastructure and more a sensibility. Of course, the shift to network-centric warfare that has become the U.S. military’s modus operandus involves a carefully calculated set of maneuvers being put into place for personnel. Similarly, the reorganization of enterprise according to “agile” principles and responsivity is a considered one. Nonetheless, there is a sense in which a particular affectivity conditions all three modes of instilling the network as a sociotechnical assemblage. This affectivity is precisely a diffuse vagueness, the state of being permanently everywhere but in no one fixed location and of ongoing readiness to act or interact—to respond. Such affect is both a condition for and an ongoing effect of the network itself. Brian Massumi suggests that this kind of “readiness potential,” this priming for action and being primed to act wherever and whenever it may occur, is the hallmark of contemporary infra-connected neoliberalism (2014: 13–14). What is “connecting” individuals at a more-than-one-to-one level (infra in the sense of both below and further on) is not an infrastructure of cables, routers, packets, and switches but a diagram of diffuse readiness in which being prompted, responsive, and participatory is glued together with informatic flows. If the internet is over, then it is because the online world has ceased to exist as a place, an object, as a medium for analysis or critique. It has given way, instead, to an entire dispositif, to deploy Foucualt’s concept (1977) of the heterogeneous ensemble of discursive, institutional, administrative, and technical elements that power exercises in the social field. This dispositif is the agile readiness of networking. In the end, though, we will need to find a different way to speak about how—through this diffuse, infraconnected, logistical neoliberal sociotechnicality—a system gives way to diagram and aesthetic objects give way to affective sensibilities, processes, and techniques of information. In response to this modulation, I have proposed the concept of (an) aesthesia of networks (Munster 2013).