Abstract: As sociotechnical assemblages, networks are both singular and nonlocalised – they are constituted by standardized communicative protocols that operate across open architectures that makes them available to artistic intervention, corporate takeover and nonpartisan political ends. Yet both the ways in which networks experience as well as human experience in and of networks  must also be thought in close proximity to questions of affect. For networks are not simply organizational forms or maps of aspects of contemporary life, They involve processes of joining with and disjoining from others and with technical elements and their operations. This chapter takes affect, technics and their relations as primary in the experience of online networked life and looks to the ways in which early online artistic and networked cultures experimented with these relations. My engagement with the critical networked culture of the late 1980s and early 1990s was formative in the development of my current approach to thinking through these relations as an ‘aesthesia’ of networks. This concept approaches the experience of networks through technical, affective, human and nonhuman elements. It sees the transitions and breaks in their relations as critical for an understanding of contemporary media and culture.
Conjunctive and Disjunctive Networks: Affects, Technics, and Arts in the Experience of Relation
“The Internet is over,” Prince famously proclaimed in an interview with the British newspaper, The Daily Mirror, in 2010. Comparing the entire way in which music distribution and marketing had fallen into the “middling” hands of both networked corporations and downloaders to the grip and branding filter that MTV held over pop music during the 1980s and ’90s, Prince’s declaration was naïve and savvy at the same time. The sheer statistics, the growth, and now diversification of platforms and apps such as Reddit, Instagram, and Snapchat, which circulate memes, stories, images, and commentary on popular music, would suggest that online networking is the main environment for music distribution and consumption. And yet Prince’s characterization of the internet as control space for audiovisual content, similar to MTV’s tight grip over the marketing of popular music’s image, is interesting. According to Prince, by 2010 the internet was no longer a space for directly networking one’s music with one’s audience, because it had become an environment in which direct connectivity was no longer possible.