It is necessary to revisit the notion of "mediation," enshrined in the very term "the media" which is everywhere today. In point of fact, all “media” stage and distribute real, embodied – that is, immediate, events. This capacity to enact in the immediacy of everyday life is an integral part of their definition.  The concept of immediation entails that the cultural or technical object can no longer be abstracted from the ways in which it contributes to and is changed by the larger environment of which it is part. This complex co-habitation weaves an ecology of lived experience. Thus the theory of immediation must be ecological in the broadest sense of the word. By ecological we are referring to the term as defined by Guattari (1995, 1989). An ecological approach is one which takes as object a field of mutual influence and co-adaptation between processes that are actively shaped through that interrelation, in a complex, coordinate evolution. From a media-and-event perspective, the suggestion is that what evolves are species of relational events. Immediation is therefore as directly involved with the theory of the event and the philosophy of relation as it is with art and media practices.
This book seeks to engage the entwined questions of relation, event and ecology from the outside. Outside of claimed territories, nomenclature and the call to action because relation, events and their ecologies are already working and infolding such statements, names and incantations.  Immediations. Art, Media, Event asks otherwise: what are the thinking-feeling imperceptibilities that colour, contour and condition relational experience today? This book will explore qualities of relationality, spacetimes of the event and transversal fields of thinking-making through expanded research, which mobilises one and several concepts of immediation. A shudder instantly runs down the spine, pulling each vertebra to attention! Would ‘immediation’ not return us right away to: direct perception of the world, what is given in experience, the simplicity of the present and all the attendant (historical) problems? What will happen to several decades of carefully construed constructivism, to a good half-century and more of the giver and the giving, to a hundred years or so of the complex theorization of time?
                                                            ….
What
Waiting for your daily commute to begin, you glance through the window at the train on the adjacent platform. Without warning your stomach lurches as you feel the train you are on drawing away from its platform and yet notice, peripherally, that its doors are still open. People continue to embark and the signage board is flashing imminent departure. In actuality, the train next to you had left while yours remained stationary. Nonetheless, you felt the movement of the platform pulling away from you; an immediately experienced felt of movement – propulsion forwardand jolt backward into a stillness from which you had been momentarily jettisoned. 
While
In a large industrial bay that has become part of an arts precinct, a work by Ryoichi Kurokawa, Test Pattern, is projected on to the floor. Nothing but pulsing patterns of black and white stripes, blinks and flashes, it rolls up and down the space, cutting it up, reassembling it rhythmically and recomposing the cavernous room into a cross between glitch and nightclub. Unexpectedly, though, people don’t dance much. Instead, they hang out, sprawled across the room with their friends and devices – some working, some chatting. Sometimes someone runs sporadically around but mostly the atmosphere is directly experienced as languid. Without communicating, without deciding deliberately, everyone just comes to inhabit the space as if it were a new kind of city park. This ‘night park’ comes spatially into existence through a collective shaping and direct movement bereft of any obvious design or plan.
How
In another park in Istanbul in 2013, hundreds of thousands of people protest against plans to demolish some of the city’s last remaining greenery for a shopping mall. Quickly the protests become about so much more: restrictions on alcohol, lack of access to abortion, repressive attitudes to homo-, trans-, and bisexuality. As Turkish sociologist Ayse Çavdar suggested, the Gezi Park protests were less about protesting against or generating power practices but rather suggest how one looks at, thinks about and decides how to live (Çavdar in Letsch, 2014). Nothing here to suggest that the movement from protest to complete political immersion turned on premeditated social action. Instead, we should consider the sudden, immediate and direct transformation of one event into a widespread mobilization toward a new fabric for experience.
                                                            ….
Practices and potential contributors
What ecologies of practice might we gather into this book to immediate variation in repetition? To variously generate immediations? And to throw open the now of immediate experience to its inhabitation by complex relations of pastness and to as yet unimagined futures? Many of the potential contributors to this collection have already touched on or considered the concept of immediation in writing that crosses affect, media and philosophies of the event. To give a sense of the quality and direction of authors, we briefly consider recently published work by some of our potential contributors. Across new ecological approaches to media, Bodil-Marie Stavning Thomsen considers the immediating operations of signaletic material from film through to new media as it functions to generate haptic surfaces, real-time relations and interfaces (2013).  Anna Munster has re-positioned mediation as an immediated sensing of the transversal relations of modalities such as vision and touch in contemporary technological devices such as the smart phone (2014: 121–2). In her upcoming book, Bodies in Time, Alanna Thain proposes a radical rethinking of genre cinema via an understanding of suspense that pivots on what she calls the experience of ‘immediation’ (2015, forthcoming).
 
Erin Manning’s work on the transversal operations of gesture and language in the tango had already conjoined mediation with the immediate more than a decade ago (2003). And Brian Massumi’s reading of how empirical encounters with the ‘too blueness’ of a colour unfolds, especially felt in the performative, mediatised vivacity of Frank Sinatra’s eyes, is a touchstone for understanding immediated events (2002b). More recently Manning and Massumi together have fleshed out the art of the event immanently, relationally and in immediated modes through their co-authored book Thought in the Act (2014). Other contributors who are currently using and working on immediations in art, media and event include: Andrew Murphie, Christoph Brunner, Jonas Fritsch, Pia Ednie-Brown, and Sher Doruff.