In the following, concretization as ‘a process of passage into conjunctive unity’ is illustrated with  the vacuum tube  as a second example. In Simondon’s discussion of  this   object,   images   provide  once   more   the   starting  point.   His   carefully arranged  photographs  demonstrate how   partly  conflicting, partly  correlative effects   that   occur   in   the   parallel  functioning  of  tube   components  become integrated  into   higher  forms    of   organization. In   this   case,   however,  the concretization process is not a matter of gradually converging multiple functions within  one  structure  (as  in  the  cooling   gills  of  the  motor).   Instead  we  are confronted  with   a  discontinuous  process  of  structural  differentiation,  i.e.  a growing number of electrons (diode, triode, pentode) and  the corresponding changes in  the  control   grid.   In  other   words, there   are  two  temporalities of technology that  are constructed in the beginning of Simondon’s book. The first is associated with  a continuous development in which  the “improvement” (perfectionnement) of the  technical object relies  above  all on a ‘growing together’ of  material  structures.  In  contrast,  the  second  temporality  corresponds  to  a process  full   of  ruptures,  an   evolution  by   means   of   “directed  mutations” (mutations  orientées) that,   because  of  conscious human  interventions  into  the object,  results in improved  functional synergies. As a consequence, it does  not seem  sufficient any  longer  to say about  the history of the  technical object that  it remains within the object and  crucially contributes to define  its present. One has to add  that  this history is characterized “by essential and  discontinuous improvements  that   bring   about   modifications  in  the  internal  system  of  the technical object, and  do so in leaps  and  not along  a continuous line”  (Simondon
1989:  38).  In  cinematographic  terms,   this   would  lead   to  distinguish  linear sequences of traditional films  from  the  montage techniques of the  avant-garde cinema.