In all this data is powerful precisely because data is the potential for feeling that, actualized, makes the world. Working with data is this actualization of world in process, in and through feeling, and in and through the repotentializing of feeling. And data here means all data, not just digital data, which is only one way of moving the potential for feeling. This making of the world is serially immediate. Data and its being drawn into events therefore rely on an ongoing process involving instances of what we can call immediation (as Alanna Thain, Christoph Brunner, Massumi, Manning and others have called it).5 What we call “mediation” is just a linked series of these events of immediation. At every point of the transit involved in what Whitehead calls actual events or actual occasions, something is lost and something gained. Thus the ongoing need for redundancy, and, for example, technical processes such as convolution in signal processing (Murphie 2013). The trace of past events that each data event carries is therefore complex and always somewhat “corrupted.” The overall result is something like a variable shimmer of patterned intensities involving moves between potentials of feeling and activated feeling (the earlier direct optogenetic alteration of neurons enables the present direct stimulation of the perception of/movement through the world of the worms, all by altering potentials for feeling). The traces of these series, in the current moment, are what we call history, though this is “history in the present” (Foucault in Massumi 2015a: 207-208ff). Any re-activating of the traces of past intensities in this process (creating “saltiness” for worms) is work that must take place within the event. It is work done by all the elements of world involved, and work that has its own momentum as changing world. This work gathers and holds together feelings. This gathering and holding includes the re-activating of “history”. As above though, history here involves a changing semi-coherence of data, along with a particular— these days more obviously changing—media-world assemblage. It is history as “the fraction of a second that is the order of magnitude of what Foucault calls ‘effective history’” (Massumi 2015a: 207).