Whitehead’s simple idea—the world as medium— is the concern of the rest of this chapter. The idea of the world as medium gives a different, in many ways more effective way of grasping the situation that produces such dystopian events and of the politics that this involves. Luckily, however, it is an idea that is not restricted to dystopian instances such as the worms with which I have begun. There are many more positive examples of the contemporary realignment of media with the world as medium. There are, for example, new idiosyncratic and elaborate media assemblages such as the blockchain database technologies and cryptocurrencies that potentially disrupt established financial systems and much more (Lotti 2015). These have the potential for direct and dramatic intervention in social organization in favour of increased (or, it has to be admitted, perhaps decreased) social equality. There is the immediation of crises by new media tools directed more obviously towards participation in the world as medium, such as Ushahidi (which involves crowdsourced crisis mapping).8 There are new and exciting forms of social organization (such as p2p and maker culture) that are premised on the maintenance and distribution of intensity throughout the social while defying given political models and syntaxes (see Gilbert 2013).9 A final example is the hugely extended web of multiple events of immediation found between climate change and climate science—in the ongoing exchanges between weather and climate as expression of the world as medium and the complex network of sensors and other media tools and techniques (such as computer modeling and visualization) the make up the science, as another expression of the world as medium (Edwards 2013). It is the world as medium that allows the literal sensing (feeling, immanently and continuously) of the differential intensities that make up the reality of climate change, both in geographical terms and over time. It allows us to feel these intensities with a much finer sensitivity. The media-world assemblage involved then is subtly attuned to all kinds of variation. Without this, climate change would be more or less imperceptible. Or rather we would feel it differently—vaguely for the most part, roughly in events of weather or climate chaos. In all such cases, thinking media in terms of the world as medium involves thinking media as the moving immanence of feeling—and of the power of feeling—over time.