Our usual models of media and communications, with their tight and unforgiving syntaxes,26 can perhaps now be seen for the rigid models they are. Their orderings order the world rather too much into hierarchies of mediation and communication. Whitehead’s media theory questions much of this. Following Whitehead, we can open up the ordering, the syntax of feeling. Doing so, we open up the world to itself, or more correctly open up the possibilities of participating differently in the dynamic ecologies of the world. Recent science gives us many provocations in this respect. Here I will only mention two. First, there is an example of a questioning of syntax in the nervous system. Using something like a Shannon-Weaver model of communication in the context of neural activity, it had until recently been thought that the axons that extend out from dendrites in the brain only transmitted signal away from the dendrites to which they were attached. However, it has recently been suggested that they are bi-directional. They can also signal inwards, towards their own dendrite. In fact, they can also “talk” to each other and “compute” separate from the dendrite (Northwestern University 2011). Second, there is an example of a questioning of hierarchies concerning sites of sensation and thinking. Again involving the way that something like a central processing media model comes into the understanding of the nervous system, the skin has long been thought as a receptor for information that would later be “processed” in the central brain. However, recently it has been suggested that calculation can occur at the skin itself, in fingertips (Umea University 2014). In both these examples sites of something like mediation are rethought in terms of a world (im)mediating itself in many more diverse sites and in different patterns of relation than are usually assumed by key models for our thinking and culture (including models of the way that media and communication function). Both these examples suggest a multi-directional and multi-situational intensification of vectors of feeling, of signal that is open to ongoing variation. The experiment with the worms with which this chapter began capitalises on this, as do so many contemporary assemblages involving media. Anywhere where the sites and syntaxes of the vector transmission of feeling can be reworked expands the communicational capacity (we might say instead, the relational intensity or affective capacity) of the “necessarily communicating world” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987: 280).27 The sites and syntaxes of feeling might be reworked by what we used to think of as either nature or culture, or both in adventurous combination.