We have to expand the notion of medium while in some ways undoing it (again, we can no longer conceive of mediation as occurring between other aspects of the world that are not mediated). Concepts of “media” and “communications.” “interaction,” even “relations” based on exchanges of information between already formed, personal or even human individuals—suddenly seem far less relevant, perhaps fundamentally misshapen (Massumi 2011: 39-86). The same applies to much related to media and communications: signal, signs, transmission, culture, society, affect, objects, subjects. This is not just a question of philosophy but of the kinds of practices, even media institutions, communities and industries, we envisage and create. With Whitehead (and others of course), we can rethink a world that consists of something like ongoing (im)mediation. Thinking in terms of the world as medium also recasts what has been perhaps the twentieth century’s quite understandable central problematic, a globalised world over-run by “the media” (understood in its usual restricted sense). In this problematic, contra everything suggested in this chapter, the world has only recently become a technology-imposed world as medium, something it was not before. The result is a “contaminated” world, over-run with media and communications, with media technologies, networks, techniques of spin and media cycles taking over politics, and so on. There is of course a troubling reality to this. Even though this is a model of communication at odds with the understanding in this chapter, it has to be acknowledged that a “false” model or concept can be as powerful in practice as a more “correct” one, if widely disseminated and put to use, especially in the building of socio-technical systems. Indeed, Massumi has described the current moment of exactly this as a “becoming-environmental of power” (Massumi 2009: 153ff; Dieter 2011). Thinking in terms of the world as medium might provide a way of matching this becoming-environmental of power while undermining it through more genuinely ecological concepts of world and medium.