Intuition is not some mystical inner sense. It does not connote a deeper or more authentic relation to self. And it is not the opposite of rationality. There is a large body of studies on priming in which an image or word flashes by too quickly to be consciously registered, in the half-second or so when a perception is in readiness potential, just stirring in emergence, not yet having taken definitive form. This is the infamous Libet lag, in which experience is absorbed in its own formation, immanent to its own arising, at its inmost end, about to spill forth in a formed perception and a corresponding action: experience at the level of bare activity. It has been shown that at this level the meaning of unregistered words inflect the interpretation of following words that are perceived consciously, demonstrating that highly elaborated cognitive functions like reading can be performed nonconsciously (Massumi 2002, 29-31, 195-197; Sklar et al. 2012). It has also been shown that multi-step mathematical operations can even occur in this way (Sklar et al. 2012). It is not that rational operations are absent from this level. It is that they ARE PERFORMED IN THE FORMING OF PERCEPTION. They are not performed secondary to perception, in a manner reflective upon it. They are performed nonreflectively, absorbed in the immediacy of perception's emergence, in too short a lapse for them to be separate operations. Their operativity, their mode of activity, is enveloped in the movement of perception's arising. They figure in perception's genesis, in-mixed among its formative factors. Coming flush with perception's coming to be, they figure as ontogenetic factors of immediate experience. C.S. Peirce speaks of this in terms of "PERCEPTUAL JUDGMENT" (Peirce 1997, 199-201; Peirce 1998, 155, 191-195, 204-211, 226-242). A perceptual judgment expresses itself in an action that is inflected in such a way that would seem to indicate that a separate act of judgment had preceded and deliberately oriented it, when it has actually occurred in conditions under which NO SEPARATE ACT OF CALCULATION COULD POSSIBLY HAVE BEEN PERFORMED.