These feral "PARTICIPATIONS AGAINST NATURE" take a number of expressions.34 Against general resemblance of kind, the early 2000s have been marked by a sea-change in perceptions of species-difference. There has been a passionate upsurge of concern, academic and activist, in nonhuman forms of life, inventive of new cross-species tendencies in the playing out of sympathy. Parallel to this, the geography of the field of relation has been fundamentally changed by the internet and social media, redistributing perceptions of contiguity and familiarity. Viral contagions rage on a daily basis, irrespective of distance or prior familiarity. In the network socieity, what is farthest away can hit closest to home. Conversely, one's immediate surroundings may seem oddly far away, affectively distanced by the intensities of experience communicated by free-roaming viralities.35 Examples of feral sympathy become a major social-media trope: images of "random acts of kindness," tales of "paying it forward," unexpected odd-couple bonds between individuals who have nothing in common or between animals of different species, cultural oddities that strike with sympathy-clinching affection in ways those experiencing it could never justify by any prevailing standards of tastes, to name just a few. On a more mainstream note, the media rhetoric of the everyday "hero" who actively accepts the possibility of his or her own total ruin to the misfortune of another, has become an inescapable daily presence, particularly since 9/11.
On the callous extreme of lack of sympathy for others, we see, in addition to what a normative point of view would consider "anti-social" actions by individuals, widespread collective attitudes that are actually based on what is purported to be "rational" economic reasoning. These are perhaps best understood less as a lack of sympathy per se, than A SYMPATHY FOR THE MARKET, of the kind corporate persons and enterprise-subjects are primed to feel—and to feel to be accordance with their own best interests as well as ultimately, in the long run of accumulating multiplier effects, to be in the common good. Most notable among these market-sympathies, or passions for the capitalist process itself—capital desires—are callousness toward the disadvantaged, expressed in policies to roll back social benefits for the love of the bottom line, and attitudes toward climate change and other ecological devastations. Do not the unapologetically obstructionist climate politics of some of the most economically developed countries, in particular Australia, Canada, and the United States, amount in the long run to preferring the destruction of the whole world to an economic scratch on the finger of the market's invisible hand?