Some of the events events of 2011 passed the threshold to revolution, or at least regime-change, as in the case of both Tunisia and Egypt. Both transitions were betrayed, the embryonic invention of freedom aborted by recapture. The whole-field macrpolitical threshold of change was not reached in the case of Occupy Wall Street, in spite of the fact that it induced its own extensively propagating event-series of Occupies of all description. Neither was it reached in the case of the Québecois "Maple Spring" (although electoral regime-change did occur). But these movements are NO LESS "IMMORTAL" FOR THAT "FAILURE." They remain successful on the "micropolitical," or affective-event-contagion level (Massumi 2009b). The MICROPOLITICAL is no more mutually exclusive of the macropolitical than affectivity is of rationality. It is a question of co-occurring modes of activity, constituting intertwined dimensions of events. The Québec student movement  of 2011-2012, unlike Occupy Wall Street, did have a specific macropolitical objective: to block an announced tuition increase. That objective was attained when the government was forced to call an election due to the unrest, and lost. The movement, however, had a micropolitical momentum that exceeded this macropolitical aim: toward not only a tuition freeze, but past that objective for free education, and even further, for an end to the neoliberalization of the university. This momentum developed, in the case of the largest and most radical student association, into an explicitly anti-capitalist manifesto issued in the leadup to the election in an attempt to prevent the movement from slipping into wholesale recapture by representative macropolitics. It is of the NATURE OF MICROPOLITICAL AFFECTIVE-EVENT MOVEMENTS THAT DO HAVE STATED MACROPOLITICAL OBJECTIVES TO EXCEED THEM. It is this EXCESS-OVER THE MACROPOLITICAL that gives macropolitical movements their intensity, and it is in their intensity that their power lies (their ontopower). The movement did subside after the electoral win—which amounted to little more than a change in the faces fronting essentially same, fundamentally neoliberal policies, given certain strategic differences. Thus the movement died by its own success. Failure is not the only way to fail.