It might still be objected that the experimental examples of fabulatory choice-blindness given above seem to have less to to do with self-creation, than with conditioning by others. But what is meant by CONDITIONING here needs to be examined. It is not assimilable to either of the two phenomena most aften associated with the term, classical Pavlovian conditioning and Skinnerian operant conditioning. The first creates reflex associations between stimuli, while the second uses a rigid system of punishment and reward to reinforce or deter target behaviors. Both function in a highly controlled, closed environment, and operate according to a stimulus-response model. The conditioning in the examples just presented, on the other hand were in uncontrolled, open environments. The tea-and-jam survey was conducted from a stall in a supermarket, and in the moral convictions survey passers-by were recruited in a city park. In neither case was a stimulus-response model employed. Rather, participants were brought into an interaction proposed to them in the open environment. The interaction constituted a subset of the activity occurring in the environment. In other words, a situation of encounter was produced within a larger context. The observed effects were the result of how the encounter was set up within these conditions. IT WAS THE SITUATION AND THE ENCOUNTER THAT WERE CONDITIONED, NOT DIRECTLY THE PARTICIPANTS. This qualifies the experimental intervention as ENVIRONMENTAL in the sense discussed earlier: as acting on the rules of the game, rather than directly on the players. The behavior of the participants was MODULATED through the way in which the parameters for the interaction were set, in the chosen contexts. The survey procedure and its structure of judgment are known genres of interaction, and as such can be expected to implant certain PRESUPPOSITIONS in the situation (such as that a survey-taker is unlikely to have studied sleight of hand magic tricks) and activate certain tendencies in the participants (such as a desire to cooperate with a seeker of knowledge and an eagerness to please someone in a relative position of authority).