The fMRIs Carr furnishes as evidence of the way ‘the internet rots our brain’ come from a neuro-sociological study exposing subjects both 'naive' and 'savvy' to online ‘hypermedia’ (2010a: 120-126). In these studies, the psychiatrist Gary Small’s resulting fMRIs function as visual indicators of structural neuro-anatomical change; before and after shots that document the fundamental fact that something has occurred to alter the neuro-anatomical structure of the brain. Importantly, the indexical claim made by such an image rests on three important functions attributed to neuro-imaging, and especially imaging processes such as fMRI. The first is that neuro-imaging infallibly accesses brain processes and maps these processes in a manner similar to photography and cartography (Dumit, 1999: 177). That is, it provides direct vision or correspondence to an area, which, due to scale, lack of accessibility or technical deficiencies, the naked eye cannot see unaided. As Dumit has argued, neuro-imaging has come to assume the evidential status of older visual technical modes of imaging (1999). The second is that neuro-images claim to capture the neural correlates of mental processes, especially in studies such as those conducted by Small on the ‘browsing’ brain or by claiming that an intention to lie correlates with certain areas of neural excitation. So that in locating anatomical change or activity in the brain, as is the case with Positron Emission Tomography (PET) or fMRI, inferences are made to states of mental and emotional life (see also Dumit, 2004: 6). The third, resting on both previous claims, is that as an imaging technique such as fMRI accesses the invisible neurobiological cornices of our behavior, it does so in real time. It furnishes us with motion capture of something we are not visibly, intentionally or actually capable of accessing yet is said to be taking place within us. It is this third claim, tethered as it is to a contemporary media reality of the moving technical image of real time events, that gives fMRI its newly emerging status as pre-indexical, pre-empting action, like being about to tell a lie, before it has even happened.
 
In a different use of fMRIs, which deploys a ‘generic’ fMRI image as a ‘sample’, we find neuroimaging being used to persuade people of the efficacy of a commercially available ‘neuro’ product. On the homepage of the No Lie MRI company, which hosts a suite of test centres across the US catering increasingly to the legal profession, a sequence of images shows changing areas of the brain, ‘lit’ up as a result of an fMRI being run on a subject.5 These fMRIs are geared toward capturing the neural response involved in intentionally telling a lie when a participant is asked a series of questions. The subject’s in vivo neural responses are then measured to see if there is a level of excitation of neurons in areas of the brain associated with anticipation and intention, suggesting the subject is intending to lie.  Here the fMRI operates as a visual index of process – the brain caught in the act of anticipation, of something to come.