Moreover, what an fMRI indicates is that we are in the middle of something. The image is not simply a tracing of action but a forwarding: this one fMRI snapshot refers to its others both captured and not captured (those that would have occurred in the 4-5 second gap between ‘snapshots’), and tells us something else will be about to have come. This is vitally important because if the fMRI indicates that the brain can change because of its exposure to media or because it is about to lie, it is because it indicates nothing more than that the brain is always changing, always in process – something to which rewiring and lying are likewise prone.  In a nontherapeutic context, the visual status of the fMRI must be seen more diagrammatically, ­less cartographically. Here I invoke Deleuze and Guattari’s sense of the operations of the diagram, that functions not simply on what is actually seen but what a diagram simultaneously virtually expresses: 
A diagram has neither substance nor form, neither content nor expression… A matter-content having only degrees of intensity, resistance, conductivity, heating, stretching, speed, or tardiness; and a function-expression having only "tensors", as in a system of mathematical, or musical, writing. (Deleuze and Guattari, 1987:162)
Thinking an image diagrammatically, then, draws attention to its potential unfoldings not all of which will in actuality unfold. For Deleuze and Guattari, the diagram has a processual aesthetic that lies in its assembling of intensive elements. We might try to conceive the mode of imaging that an fMRI produces differently by following these diagrammatic axes, when we see them deployed in social and cultural contexts. This would require transversally drawing out the virtualities rather than representational vectors of neural processes: the brain looks like its moving toward this but may also be moving toward that; there’s a burst of activity here but then nanoseconds later there’s another burst elsewhere. We would have to think the still neural image as always already moving. Whereas the fMRI when presented as a single image of brain change traces activity that’s occurred, if re-imagined as a tracing of process it could also sketch a virtual future, moving us forward indeterminately to what might be unfolding multifariously somewhere else.