A nonsensical script was written (Duck Feet) and was made to be broken, and was imagined to be a night mainly for fun (for vacation time) at the FOFA courtyard where everyone can take in a drink and a show (a semblance of an expression that tries to deny its multiplicity). Duck Feet is a modular atmosphere for feeling the informal in its apposition to the fabulatory instruments of sex, love, politics, and race. The power of a script barreling its way through, the power of the musicians trying to hack it down, the power of the soirée and its natural sociality, the power of the attendees and the phrases they speak (with style) or do not speak (with style). The attendees are invited to modulate DUCK FEET joyously in accord with whatever decides to happen. Everyone gets partial phrases that together make up aphorisms written in response to the Undercommons. But they never play in the "right" order. You speak them or change them. 
	•	Friday, July 17 - 11am - Speaker Series with Flo
Please come at the SenseLab (F.B. 630-19) this coming Friday, July 17, at 11am to know more about the work of Flo, Australian artist, thinker, activist and resident at the SenseLab. 
Her presentation, “Direct Action” evades predetermination at every step” wants to explore “a somewhat associative ride through political direct action’s fundamental indeterminacy, the affect of protest and the way these phenomena are sometimes made felt through contemporary artworks/practices” 
	•	In lieu of an introduction
Where: Parc st viateur (Bernard and de l’epee) When: July 20 2pm Bring: The Undercommons
	•	Escape, Refugees and Fugitive Planning
The situation in Europe at the Mediterranean sea concerns us a lot right now. Yet, this situation is very much linked to a global situation where migration is happening all over the world.  At the same time we also have a violent climate and right wing debates against refugees going on in Germany and other countries right now. We would propose to share experiences in different contexts and location (Europe, Australia, Asia, US, Canada...). For who is interested we post two texts on the hub: "The Autonomy of Migration" from Papadopoulos/Stephenson/Tsianos. And a text we were discussing at the EU-Hub a couple of weeks ago: Heller/Pezzani “Liquid Traces”. Both texts shall only serve as background. The focus is on sharing and discussing our experience. How can the pressing current situations be connected to concepts of routes of escape, lines of flights or fugitive planning? And what kind of activism can result from this? How do these questions and concepts can be taken up by our experimentation with movement profiles for the 2016 EU event?
	•	Disco Soup and Film Screening (of it) - Wednesday July 22 @ Park Jarry
Where: Mainly at Jarry park – Jean-Talon market preferably mandatory on your way to Jarry park When: Wednesday July 22 – first meeting point at 5:30pm at place Shamrock near the bikes  second meeting point – Jarry Park from around 6-7pm 
Fugitive planning: gaspacho, pop-corn, fruit, your best collective improvised salad, Mobile Bike Powered Cinema, live jam-music or my/your playlist, a lot to share around the time of a gold summer soup, and more to come
An experimental special evening inspired by the disco soup events: A Disco Soup with the live documentation and screening of it. 
The Disco Soup was born to fight the waste of food. You can learn more about this initiative here: http://discosoupe.org
The principle is simple: gather food which is going to be throw away but still good from the market (Jarry park is at 7-10 min away from Jean-Talon market), cook while the music is playing and eat together. 
During the Disco Soup, we encourage you to take small footages with your IPhone or IPad to gather some memories of it. After a small editing on site, and at the darkness of evening a screening of all the videos will be made.  
Around 9pm – screening of “Les glaneurs et la glaneuse” de Agnès Varda
	•	Locating and dislocating in a social emergency (Friday 24 July, 11am)
Thinking about social emergency procedures.  Thinking about the urgency of the frontlines and the importance of alternate perspectives. Thinking about tools to navigate the rip in social distance.  Thinking about pedagogy, habit, and whiteness. 
Join us for a scattered offering of ideas.
	•	Cuts and code - film screening and conversation on imposturing through cultural budget cuts
There is a new wave of significant cuts to cultural budgets in federal and provincial governments sweeping the Western world. Whether it's here in Quebec with the recent CALQ $2.4million budget reduction; across the globe but home to many of us, in Australia with the transfer of $140million to the autocratic Fund for Excellence in the Arts; or elsewhere such as in the Netherlands. This Thursday evening, there'll be a screening of the film "Cuts Make the Country Better" by friends of the SenseLab, François Lemieux et Edith Brunette.