Since  Simondon provides no  references or  further examples for  his  first  two claims, it is difficult  to assess their  veracity, but taken  together, these three  claims help   to  clarify  Simondon’s  conception  of  the  living   organism, at  least  as  it emerges in  Du  mode. For  Simondon, a  living   being   is  a  coherent  system  of (biological) functions that  has  some  degree of consonance with  its “natural” associated milieu  – that is, the milieu  that complements the living individual, but which  not  been  constructed by humans – and  which  is able to propagate on its own.  Yet however clear this image  of the organism might  be, it nevertheless begs a number of important questions. First, what  does  it mean  for an organism to be able to propagate on its own?  This question is especially pressing in the  case of plants, many  of which  rely on the assistance of other  organisms, such  as bees, in order to propagate. Simondon implies that  modes of reproductive assistance that involve humans (e.g., grafting) are in some way qualitatively different than  those that  rely on non-human living  beings,  but he provides no justification for such  a distinction. Second,  and  related to this first question, what  does  it mean  for one living  being  to be “part” of the  associated milieu  of another? As I noted above, Simondon explicitly claimed in L’individuation that  other  living  organisms often formed part  of the associated milieu  of a given  organism. However, in Du Mode he  suggests that  human intervention can  sometimes shift  from  being  simply a “part” of an associated milieu  to be becoming the whole  of the associated milieu, insofar  as the  organism can  no  longer  reproduce without human intervention. Yet if dependency is what  is at stake, in what  ways  does the dependency produced by human intervention differ  from  the  dependency of many  plants on birds  or foraging animals (including humans), which  spread seeds  from one geographical location  to another? [9]