Further, Simondon situates technology in relation to magical,  religious, aesthetic and  philosophical thought. These domains are not in causal  continuity with  one another,  but   participate  in  a  complex  set  of  relationalities  that   enable   the emergence of a heterogeneous unity  in movement enveloping the  totality of all modes in virtue of a process of reticulation, or networking, effected  by aesthetics. The  modes of thought are  therefore not  juxtaposed  – fused  or  confused – but given  all at once in their  genetic  or formative processes. More precisel y, technical and  religious thought results from  the  unfolding of magical  thought. Magical thought is  a  primitive unity,   a  plurality of  modes of  existence,   a  living  and linking relation between humans and  the world that precedes the distinction between subjects  and  objects. An aesthetic engagement recalls  the rupture of the magical   state   of  primitive  unity,   and   in  so  doing  brings   the   potential  for reticulating  it  anew,   enabling  the   emergence  of  a  future  unity.   Aesthetics, Simondon warns  us,  does   not  unfold.  Rather,   it  operates  horizontall y,  and maintains the  function  of  totality in  a  field  of  reality   that   tends to  diverge through specialization. In  other  words, it  facilitates the  unification of heterogeneous domains –disciplines, modes of thought, etc.– by allowing them to  get   networked  back   together.  Aesthetics  constitutes  a  remarkable  point carrying   the    trace     of    a    unity     from     which     a    new     unity     can    be reticulated/networked. Aesthetics is therefore never  determined; it is a tendency carrying the  power of reticulation. Aesthetics enables  an  engagement with  the magical  state, while  negotiating the vast milieus of its creation. Thus, art is conceptualized as a meaningful reaction to the loss of signification generated by the   divergent  unfolding  that   split   the   magical   unity.   Art   works   recapture something of the feeling  of the primitive unity  as their  own  aesthetic feeling,  but they do not reconstitute the primitive unity.