Just such a style might be what is discernible for us as animal in the monkey selfies – traces of a play performed with an apparatus that appears to initially solicit a combative functional response but then are taken up in play. Their discovery of the nonfunctionality of the camera – it doesn't produce food it, doesn’t warrant aggression and its potentiality for play, remaining in the felt gestures of successive depressions of the camera’s button in the jungle that day – is what we affectively catch through a stylistic refrain. This refrain passes across the group of Macaques, their smiles, gestures and head tilts and just happened to be caught on camera. We catch the monkey’s style – a different, noninstrumental mode and logic of bringing gesture and technical object into relation. We laugh at the possibility that these images could indeed be selfies and we set of chain reactions of metacommunicative and communicative collapse as we post and repost animal selfies online. In An Aesthesia of Networks I was concerned to articulate how certain kinds of videos went viral via affective refrains; I am invoking some of the same kind of argument here: What is it, then, that makes these clips circulate among millions of people online? Deleuze and Guattari suggest, “They are haecceities in the sense that they consist entirely of relations of movement and rest between molecules or particles, capacities to affect and be affected” (A Thousand Plateaus, 261). We respond to such haecceities, as Deleuze and Guattari call this quality of vague thisness that generates a response—that capacity to be affected by the everyday—by conjoining with them, by going viral, by associating with them contagiously. Something elusive moves and moves us; something not quite quantifi- able is generated when these videos are uploaded and then circulate through networks. Something that is felt, shared, and spread through online audiences and networks. Something that does not yet have substance, even so, has force. (Munster, An Aesthesia of Networks: 103)