RESEARCH TOPICS: The project will investigate the problematic of immediation from three intimately connected interdisciplinary angles of research fostering an "ecological" approach to media, art and event: 1) Recomposing Experience (how do new creative practices reorganise experience and perceptions, and with what social and political ramifications?); 2) The Anarchive (what kinds of archiving and documentation practices are able to capture the innovative force of research-creation activities?); 3) Event Ecologies (what can an expanded notion of the ecological bring to the domain of research-creation and the understanding of transdisciplinary knowledge practice in general?) The research of the 7-project will be synthesized around this topic, under the rubric of the "ecology of practices." Our goal will be to become a leading voice in the definition of research-creation, bringing to the fore new ways of understanding how knowledge is crafted, as well as new forms of transdisciplinary collaboration for knowledge production and dissemination.
-The partnership grant will allow us to consolidate past work through the new process of archiving we propose (the anarchive), thereby building a living repository of the processes we are creating. Through the creation of institutional linkages and the sharing of knowledge across the partnership, we will be able to create a strong document defining research-creation, thereby articulating forms of knowledge that have for too long been excluded from academic discourse.
2) The Anarchive. The anarchive refers to the fact that the archive in the digital age never sits still. Digital media events are reactivatable by nature, and lend themselves to re-uptake, remix and contagion. There is an in-built unruliness to them. This calls into question traditional practices of documentation and archiving, which operate on a model of passive storage. The anarchive is a kind of dynamic, open-air archiving in which media events are let loose to proliferate through networks, mutating as they go, and triggering follow-on events. The web-based project ANARCHIVE (http://www.anarchive.net/) is a good example of the concept: while it is a forum for the archiving of digital media, this collective explicitly foregrounds the fact that a digital archive involves the creation of "an original artwork." Another example is Constitution of the Damned which describes itself as "a project setting up scenarios to activate codes and rules of self-organization" emphasizing that in the anarchive, archiving itself is an event. This raises a range of questions, both theoretical and practical, tools for the study of which come from such areas as network studies (in the narrow sense as well as in the sociological sense of Terranova 2004, Latour 2007, Castells 2009), “intermediality” theory (which studies the interconnection between old and new media; Ellström 2010, Oosterling 2010), "media archaeology," museology, curatorial studies, archive studies, theories of “art intervention” (artistic practices aimed at creating follow-on effects of social or cultural self-organisation in public space), and complexity and chaos theory (“order out of chaos” paradigms, Prigogine/Stengers 1984). Co-applicant Ricardi Dal Farra is a specialist in digital archiving.
In Year 3, local and centralised activities will turn to questions of the "event" of knowledge production understood in terms of immediation, with the second research theme The Anarchive as special focus. The Europe hub will organise an experimental research-creation event with the assistance of curator Catherine de Zegher (combining concept work and hands-on art practice). This event will grow from the previous colloquium. It will build on that experence and the local activities leading up to it, as well as the SenseLab’s accumulated expertise and techniques garnered through its previous projects combined with those gleened from the partnership grant thus far. Based on this event, in Year 4 a special issue of Inflexions will be prepared. The Inflexions practice is to invent a unique dynamic interface specific to the conceptual node of each issue, with the aim of exploring the unique audiovisual and networking possibilities offered by the internet vis-à-vis print media. The design of the interface will be a collaborative activity of the partnership, in connection with its exploration of the "anarchive".