Friendship, as Derrida suggests, is a certain “telepoesis,” a poetic reaching toward, that which speaks to and at a distance, a poetics of distance at one remove. Friendship is “an absolute acceleration in the spanning of space” (Derrida 1997, 32). Friendship is the miraculation of time and space. Friendship, at its most political, is the rethinking, the resensing of body, subjectivity, and social change in terms of movement, force, and violence. Friendship is sensing the body beyond the law (“where meaning carries a sentence,” Massumi 2002a, 66), allowing the body to sense across the space that links my body to another. Friendship is locating singularity as that which positions itself within a topography of the always-already in a politics of emergence. Friendship is touch, if touch is conceived as the modiﬁcation of timed-spaces and spaced-times. Friendship, the in-between (the space between friends) is not an effect of the always-already positioned but a creation of a reciprocal space of encounter where we reach out to gather space and curve time. In a politics of friendship, there is no reference to a pre-emergent singularity or subjectivity. Each singularity is created in and through friendship, each singularity is an embodied political instance of a becoming-touch. The  space  of  friendship,  the  in-between  space  of  a  politics-in-the-making of touch, has its own logical consistency. This space is not a post-original space, a ﬁliative chronotope. It is, rather, a “being of the middle— the being of a relation” (Massumi 2002a, 70). This emergent space is not pre-constituted nor given in advance. It is the mode of sensation where potential is present in the perceiving body. It is the moment of reception of that which has been and continues to be in relation. This in-betweenness is the unknowable of that toward which I reach. This is a composite moment, a sensory experience where heterogeneity inhabits the multiplicitous spaces of the body and modiﬁes that body. In fact, the in-betweenness is the body in the same sense as it is space, for the body knows nothing but its own movement, a positionality that can only ever be in relation to time and to space. In this sense, the body is the “event-dimension” of potential (Massumi 2002a, 76), the transportative dimension of the interrelation of body
and world.