Within the vocabulary of nationalism and the nation-state, violence reigns as the constant signiﬁer of (in)security. To evoke a discourse of security, the threat of violence must persist. Manichean thought attempts to resolve the issue of violence by associating violence with the other who is generally understood, within the vocabulary of the nation-state, as the adversary. The positing of the other as adversary results in a tendency to construe violence as the intrusion of the other who must remain outside the bounds of my territory (usually the nation-state). Violence is thus articulated as the violation of the self-same by an external intruder. If we consider the body as congruent with the national body-politic, we might be led to believe that any intrusion into the body would be a violence in and of itself (even the touch of a virus, for example). Yet it seems to me that this vocabulary short-changes the body. Is the body not in excess of this easy distinction between inside and outside? If so, might we not be suspicious of a political body that acts as such a stern guarantor of the limits of inclusion and exclusion?
Within the vocabulary of the nation-state, violence is not simply framed as the exclusive character of the other, but is even more powerfully conceived of as a means through which the self is constituted and maintained. Touch challenges this dichotomy, creating not a self and an other, but a third space, a reciprocal body-space that challenges the limits of both self and self as other. Touch refuses a simpliﬁed condensation of the encounter between you and me, refuses to speak only about the point of departure and the point of return. Touch grapples with the impossibility of fusion in the movement of desire that is directed toward you and, reciprocally, toward myself. The violence is not in the moment of apprehension (if touch is reciprocal, I cannot touch you “violently,” that is, without your con-sent3), but in the decision to reach toward. The violence exists in the reaching out toward that which will remain unknowable. State violence, on the other hand, seems to rely on the pretense that the unknowable could simply be the unknown and therefore potentially conquerable through comprehension and domination.