Strange inconsistency between the desire to touch and the injunction to have faith? Faith precedes the Fall. Into experience is out of faith. Is this always the case? Must God remain untouchable? According to Michael Hardt, incarnation is abandonment to the ﬂesh: “The self-emptying or kenosis of Christ, the evacuation of the transcendental, is the afﬁrmation of the plenitude of the material, the fullness of the ﬂesh” (2002, 78). Incarnation is the body-ﬂesh becoming touchable/untouchable at the nexus between the inﬁnite and the eternal, the metamorphosis of the modalities of existence. Incarnation as becoming-ﬂesh is not the eternalization of the untouchable but the touchability of the eternal. “Transcendence, the condition of possibility of being, should not be imagined as above or below the material it dwells, rather, precisely at its very surface” (Hardt 2002, 79). Jesus incarnate appears to exclaim that there is no mediation necessary between the transcendent and the immanent. Transcendence and immanence are complimentary, they exist in the experience of the body of Jesus, in its immanent un/touchability. The difference is that here touch no longer signiﬁes a “possession” of the body as in the earlier healing narratives, but instead evokes a relation to the immanence of experience.
Senses are awakened between Jesus and Mary in the noli me tangere scene. Mary reaches toward Jesus and registers his voice. She makes contact with him, not by touching him, but by accepting his untouchability. Thomas does not make contact. For Thomas, Jesus must be present. Jesus must be touched in order to conﬁrm the materiality of his ﬂesh. Touch is sidelined with knowledge here, with reason. For Mary, it is Jesus’ imminent absence that connects him to her. Presence as absence is the experience of touch. Touch is of the body, actual but virtual; it is the experience of the body’s immanence, of its ability to re-generate, to re-appear differently. Mary locates not the body of Christ but the trace of his passing and the promise of his return.