Bodies don’t stand still. Skin demonstrates this in poignant ways. Skin is always toward-death, its upper layer already on the verge of being replaced. Taylor writes: “At the point where I make contact with the world, I am always already dead” (1997, 13). The skin is the expression of the momentariness of life, of the passage toward a continuous re-emergence. Skin is metamorphosis in action: “Skin is a multilayered, multipurpose organ that shifts from thick to thin, tight to loose, lubricated to dry, across the landscape of the body” (Imperiale 2002, 29). Skin gathers experience and exudes, its expressions gravitating in and out, from outermost to innermost cavities. Living and dead, skin is self-repairing, self-replacing, sensual and sensing, ﬂush with nerves, glands, capillaries. Skin, grown in laboratories today, modulates the meaning, form, matter, dimensions, surface of the world at large. Skin transforms the political ﬁeld. To think politically is to become aware of the surfaces that connect intervals between worlds. Skin emerges here not simply as an envelope but as a connector between various timedspaces. The interval is not a non-space-time. The interval is a quality of space-time that wanders between surfaces that seem hermetic. A politics of touch ﬁnds its momentum in these intervals, incorporating the body as a weave rather than as a closed environment. A politics of touch does not pre-exist a body: it transforms it. Skin incites me to address the paralysis at the heart of political systems that continue to be caught in an increasing (though for the most part, unspoken) tension between virtualization and biopolitics. In these state systems, biopolitics must be incorporated into the body-politic as actualization. Otherwise, the body “itself” cannot be accessed. Biopolitics thereby becomes institutionalized as a way of binding the imaginary of a body to a modality of hierarchical power. Biopolitics that strives to control an “actual” body condemns the body to a form that becomes a state of exception without release.