The constitutive problem in chapter 3 on Gill is place. More precisely, it is the inhabitation of place as a translocal practice. Gill might also be said to be practicing an art of the relationship-specific as opposed to the site-specific. The phrase of Gill's taken up to serve as the chapter title, "making to place," says as much: her art is not a making in place, but a making to place, in the way we say that we tap to a rhythm. In Gill's case, however, the process hones down to focus on a single body, its solitudes and forays. Here, the thorniness is around the notion of identity that is so habitually applied to single-body solitudes and forays, as well as the role of biography as constructive of identity. For a practitioner of philosophic transduction who systematically errs on the side of pre-personal and even impersonal intensities, this could be very problematic. The artist's practice and her discourse about her practice are anchored in her biography. But then … her stated concern is precisely not to anchor her work in her biography. It is to find processual freedom for her work by "floating" her identity. Her working through her biography is in order to float it beyond itself. The alternative would be to be a slave to the historical and geopolitical determinants, and the way they pin an externally constructed identity to a body and its life's path. History and geopolitics and the way they biographically determine an identity have to be controverted – converted by the artworking into factors for becoming. They have to be counteractualized as enabling constraints for creative freedom. This must be done in a way that charges the individual body with the force of the collective, minus its power to fully determine in line with its history: with a singular twist. This twist on the problem of biography delineates a problematic region of overlap between the appetite of the philosophy and the process of the art that the essay has to work out in its own manner through the conceptual taking-form it stages.