Elemental does not mean foundational. Elementarity is relative to the composition at hand. The stadium wave is composed of proto-waving subgestures. These are also caused, and their cause is, like the wave, composite and ultimately nonlocal. But the wave cares nothing of this. It takes them up into its own formation as the elementary units proper to its own constitution. The forces entering into the composition of these pro-wave elements are many and heterogeneous. The participant's self-identification as fans is among them. Even though that identity as such is not taken up into the wave as a formative factor proper to it, it was part of what brought its proto-wavers to the stadium. It is among the forces that have produced the conditions for the wave-making. The cultural codes and conventions of fandom also number among the conditioning forces. As does the presence of the cameras that prime the expressive fires of the fans by providing them a channel for the propagation of their gestures' effect beyond the stadium to the millions of fans at home, not to mention the media commentators who whip up anticipation. The list could go on indefinitely. There are an infinity of contributory factors, of vastly different scales, straddling the vastest of distances. These factors cannot be counted, and the particular contribution of each cannot be precisely separated out. They overlap and interpenetrate, diffusing into an open field whose exact size or contours are indeterminate. The best way to describe them would be in terms of differentials – the differential between fans of one team and and another, between fans and nonfans, between stadium fans and home fans, fans and commentators, cameras feeds and viewing in situ, to name just a few – and intensities – levels of fan loyalty, vivacities of participation, and the number and variety of media feeds, each with its own reach and powers of attention-grabbing and passion-stirring. An open, differential field of intensities. That is what peaks in each gesture of each fan who lends him- or herself to the wave-making. That infinity of of contributory factors is integrally enveloped in each wave-forming subgesture of each proto-waving fan. Like the wave itself that they compose, each of the wave's composing elements are a fusional multiplicity. The fusional multiplicity of the stadium wave as a whole folds-out from the elemental folding-into its composing subgestures of the infinite, open, differential field of sporting intensities, mulitply peaking.