In the case of Montreal-based digital media artist Rafael Lozano-Hemmer, the inflection has at times gone in both directions, and the duration is even longer, beginning at the end of the 1980s. My early work on the politics of everyday fear formed part of the background for one of Lozano-Hemmer's works, discussed in chapter 2. A young Lozano-Hemmer had actually had a hand in the fear project as a member of the collective that formed around the project in its embryonic stages. Later work of mine on amodal perception factored into a subsequent project of Lozano-Hemmer's, also analyzed here. Collaborations happened.ii The problem that Lozano-Hemmer's work crystallized for mine concerned the distinction between interaction and relation. Here was an "interactive artist" vehemently repudiating that label, insisting that what he was really doing was "relational architecture." And here was an artist whose early projects were held up as a paragon of site-specific art claiming that they were anything but site-specific, even as they occupied the public square and drew materially on the history of the place. And here was a pioneer of electronic art who never defined his own process in terms of the technological medium of the digital. What is "relationship-specific" art, as Lozano-Hemmer also calls it, as opposed to site-specific art? What is a practice of urban art that takes-place locally, but refuses to be confined to that locality? What does the taking-place of relationship-specific art say, not only about the concepts of site-specificity and locality, but also of medium-specificity? How does it challenge the very nature of what we take a medium to be? Another knot of questions, another aparallel accompaniment, more goadings and gestatings, inflections and conceptions, in the processual intimacy of a formative distance. Where the overlap with Lynn's work brought me into an encounter with architecture, through Lozano-Hemmer the encounter with architecture opened out into the urban environment and its relationship-specific overspilling of its own locality.