Today we live out the far side of the social tendency which made Vološinov cringe. From this vantage point it appears much less frightening: as mundane as Facebook. How more "contrived" could the word get than when it is digitized and refracted through a technological apparatus of immense complexity and tentacular reach. The same clash and convergence between extreme typicality and the hypertrophied assertion of individuality is to be found on the "personal" pages of social media. But the posts are not "personal" in anything approaching the nineteenth-century and early twentieth-century sense, when there was a clearly contrasting "public" for individual speech to be set against. Social media are the reign of the quasi-public. Facebook friends exist to interlink. The "personal" connection is made to drift across the propagating links, rippling into expanding social circles, to the point that mutual "friends" will often not know who each other are. Facebook posts are designed to relay, propagating indefinitely across the rippling sea of digital sociality. The relay function is taken even further with Twitter. Citations proliferate in paratactic contiguity with each other, merging at the limit into a single varidirectional stream of social expression. Evaluative accents clash and converge in multitudinous interorientation. Already as of April of 2011, barely five years in, it was estimated that one billion tweets were being emitted each week. Sociability giganticus. Peer-to-peer sharing, for its part, has weakened the ownership of expression, sparking often draconian rear-guard actions in defense of "intellectual  property." Hacking even more so. This, as "personal" expression on social media sites falls under the proprietary control of corporations. Content posted by individuals on Facebook belongs not to them but to Facebook, Inc. The rules of ownership formerly in place have been scrambled by the predominance of a new operator: "access" (a shift pre-diagnosed by Jeremy Rifkin in 2000).lxxvi To gain access, users are required to accept interminable contracts whose terms they never read: contractual "private" expression? In this oxymoronic brave new quasi-public social world, gossip – used here as a catch-all term for speech falling under the sway the fourth person singular – has attained a new level of prominence.