Malay Moslems' naming practice is based on the Arabic tradition. A person's given name is followed by a patroym composed of a vocable indicating heritage (similarly to the Arabic bin) plus the father's given name. The names of Malaysians of Tamil descent, who form the majority in the Malaysian Indian community, are similarly structured. Most Malaysian Indians of Punjabi descent, however, like Malaysian Chinese, have patrilineal surnames, or family names. After independence, efforts were made to rationalize names. In practice, this boiled down to ensuring that kinship with the father was registered in the names of individuals of all ethnicities, as a patronym or a surname depending on the case. This impulse, the artist feels, was primarily an inheritance of the British colonial obsession with labeling and categorizing. But it would not be unreasonable to speculate that the inherited colonial impulse was reinforced by Islamic cultural priorities regarding gender and family that were being reaffirmed as part of the postcolonial nation-building project. Oddly, the fact that Malaysian Indians of Punjabi descent already had surnames did not register. It is as if the difference between Punjabi and Tamil naming practice was not perceivable in its specificity, but only as a marker of minority lack. Malaysian Indians were lumped together, with differences within the community appearing as an irregularity in need of smoothing over. After all, an Indian is an Indian, for all intents and divisive national unification purposes. The relevant division for those purposes was Indian versus Chinese versus Malay. So the artist's name was rationalized. The authorities took her father's three names, first, middle, and last, and declared them a new composite family name. This name was then added to the three the artist already had. Simryn Kaur Gill Ajaib Singh Gill. That is what it sounds like to be taken for a lump. This is rationalization, fully Stated. Talk about overlay! Colonialism overlaid upon State nationalism converging with patriarchical cultural values overlaid upon half-recognized ethnic identity. Overzealous labeling, taken to the point of redundancy. Simryn Gill Gill? Biographical overkill.