The consistency of a practice is its constitutive texture: the way in which the creative factors entering into its constitution come-together, co-compose, and fuse into the emergence of a produced effect that stands by itself and for itself, in its own manner. Each art practice has a consistency uniquely its own, and the consistency of an art practice is very different from that of a philosophic practice. The consistency of a philosophic practice is defined by the reciprocal presupposition of its component concepts. That is a fancy word for mutual embrace. The work of philosophy is to craft concepts into a weave where each concept has meaning only as a function of the concepts around it – and all the other concepts are around it. Each is implicate in the others, and all the others are implicate in each. In other words, the vocation of philosophy is to invent a systematic holding-together of concepts. This is stranger than it seems at first. "This requirement" of systematic reciprocal presupposition, Whitehead warns, "does not mean that [the concepts] are defina­ble in terms of each other; it means that what is indefina­ble in one such notion cannot be abstracted from its rele­vance to the other notions."iii The conceptual weave is a dynamic open system. Each concept's embrace of the others' relevance amounts to an implicate movement of thought carrying the concept beyond the limit of its own meaning, into the collective texture. The fact that every concept envelops that movement in its own way, and they are all doing it together in concert, makes the system a maximally consistent conceptual expression of thought's capacity to carry itself to the limit of the definable, where it edges into the unthinkable. Thought unbounded – by dint of mutual relevance, taken to the highest power. In the essays that follow, it will be asserted that the "medium" of a practice is the manner of event it occasions. The medium of philosophy, by this definition, is mutual relevance (taken to the limit of the thinkable).