What most irks Eisenman is precisely what Lynn rejoices in: the processual indistinction between the creature and the creator. Failing to maintain the separation between the powerful new tool of the trade, the trade itself, and the creative artist amounts for Eisenman to a delusional abdication of architectural authorship. To be used responsibly, the computer-assisted topological figure must be kept at arm’s length, on a self-reflective leash. Its proper employment is as a mediating device inserted between the “authorial subject,” the authored architectural “object,” a “receiving subject,” and the “interiority” of architecture as a discipline, in such a way as to maintain their distance from each other even as it brings them into contact.viii  The point for him seems to be that the contact remain external and regulated, so that the authorial subject may “overcome” and “access.” In other words, a critical distance must be maintained. The contact will be a mediated interaction rather than a becoming. Despite protestations to the contrary, walking the topological dog will be a dialectical exercise – a deconstructive ‘dialectic without synthesis,’ as the motto goes. Architecture will include its outside only as “signified”— as already “written” into its interiority prior to any interaction. The outside is understood as a signifying “discourse” that has always already left “traces” on the inside anterior to any event. The anteriority of writing is used to deconstruct the interiority of the discipline – dramatically, as an overcoming assertion of subjective “autonomy” (from “history,” from the “social,” from “repressed memory”). By Derridean sleight, Freud’s “mystic pad” firmly in hand, the architectural master can have his interiority and deconstruct it too. For present purposes, the main point is that in this perspective anything of any import that occurs architecturally will be on the order of signification (if the man with the leash has been known to bark, don’t worry, it’s only metaphorical).