The fact that you can only ventriloquize what you are already almost capable of inventively mouthing means that the processual transduction between art and philosphy can only work if the philosophy already has an appetite for the problems. The philosophy must feel an impetus of its own to incorporate the formative force of the problems into its becoming, as if already carried at its very heart a precursory imprint of the nonphilosophical outside. Under that impetus, as the appetite satisfies itself, the problems unfold into a properly philosophic expression and take on a new consistency – one that might well seem monstrous to the artist. It is in these terms that Deleuze spoke of his relation even to other philosophers (given the absolute singularity of their respective consistencies, philosophical systems are processual outsides to each other, even though they ply the same medium; their community in the same institutional discipline is a false association; what they belong to is only their own passage to the limit of the thinkable, in processual overlap with the nonphilosphical fields for which they have an inventive appetite; philosophy as a discipline is a discipline, not philosophy; philosophy is transdisciplinary by its very nature; it not only retains the ability to problematically overlap with non-philosophical fields, it is only on the condition of doing so, in defiance of its disciplinary history, orphaning itself from it, that it lives and breathes). Deleuze, orphan of French philosophy, spoke of wanting to beget a monster with his philosophical interlocutors. But it was essential to him that one they would nevertheless be moved to recognize the ill-begotten as their own mutant offspring. His main concern, he said, was that the philosophers he philosophized from would not be set turning in their graves. In this case, the concern was that the artist, still very much alive and kicking, would not collapse into a heap in the studio. The hope that the creative practitioners whose work I was writing from would still be able recognize themselves in some unthinkable way in the becoming-different of their process as it transduces into philosophy was a guiding concern. In the case of Gill, it was explicitly part of the procedure. We agreed that if she opened herself through the discussion, I would take out from my ill-begotten text anything she couldn't live with. There were things that troubled her, but in the end she affirmed the trouble, and went with the mutation, unheaped. She embraced her own becoming-different – which, after all, is what her art is all about. Even though it was less formalized in the case of Lynn and Lozano-Hemmer, the transductive approach and the concerned ethics of monstrosity it involves were very much a part of those encounters all along.vi