with  “wellbeing” and  that  it stopped meaning prosperity. The word “gold” should mean   destruction, poverty, prostitution. Like  on  cigarette packets, where nowadays tobacco  companies are obliged to put  a picture of a person dying  of  cancer,   each  gold   ring   should  have   the  image   of  a  hectare  of devastated or destroyed jungle.  Gold  should record all the destruction that  it generates both  at  an  environmental and  a social  level.  I remember  when  I once  arrived in Europe, in Amsterdam, and  while  I was  looking  around the Schiphold airport, I saw an ad with  a picture of a beautiful woman covered in gold,  that  is,  completely golden. The  slogan  said  something like  “embrace your   golden  beauty.” The  association  of  gold  as  the  most   valuable,  as  a standard by which  to measure your  inner  beauty, to understand your  value, really  caught my  attention. And  a  little  further over,  almost   in  the  same hallway, there  was  another ad for protected species  or animals: an elephant’s head  without ivory,  rhinoceroses without horns,  tiger,  jaguar,  lion  or  zebra pelts,  hunting trophies. These  advertisements also  really  make  me  think.  It you want  to protect animals, what’s the point  of saving  them  if you are going to  destroy  their   habitat?  You’ll  never   achieve   anything  by  declaring an animal, a tree  or  a plant  a protected species  if you  are  going  to allow  their entire  jungle  surroundings to be burned and  destroyed. But like I was  saying at the  beginning, the  problems generated by the  extraction of oil or gold  are not going  to be solved  here. The solution to the environmental problem in the Amazon will  not  be proposed by  governments for  their  citizens,  rather, by “inside” citizens  for  “outside” citizens.  We  need  to  be  able  to  amplify the network of  awareness about   the  reality   and  the  environment crisis  in  our Amazon. We must  work  with  the  press  and  international public  opinion to have  them  support us.  I think  that  if transnational corporations arrive  here buying and  corrupting the  leadership – and  separating communities from their  interests in  order to  obtain  the  necessary concessions – they  will  end these  practices when all of their  purchases and  divisiveness is documented. When  all of this  is made  public  in the  country where these  companies pay taxes,  and   when these  corporations begin  to  be  questioned by  their   own members, then we’ll be able to achieve  positive change for the jungle.