The birth of a new technical object is never a linear progress. It is always an emergence across a threshold of surprise. A new cycle begins, from active indeterminacy, to vague determination, to “full” determination (nominal identity deployed within a conventional sphere of practical dependability). The life of a technical object must always pass through the stages of ultimate fact of experience (rupture/irruption/threshold of existence) and merely-talked-about factoid (semi-objective elaboration) before finally baring itself through experimentation (verification/profitable deployment). For this reason, the history of science is never linear and never pure of context and situation. The history of science cannot be contained in “intellectual history.” It is always “dirtied” by an unavoidable genealogical link to chance event, common sense, and gossip. In short, recounting its story, describing its effective form of transition, demands a broadly Foucaultian genealogy of the kind practiced by Bruno Latour and supported philosophically by Isabelle Stengers. As both authors emphasize, that genealogy must include “transversal” linkages to non-scientific spheres of practice (especially commercial and governmental, most crucially concerning questions of regulation and funding) as well as to proto- or semi-scientific spheres. These latter may not be as formalized as what is recognized as Western science, but are far more elaborated and dependable than common sense and gossip. They attest that there are many degrees of reality or forms of transition populating the interval between factoid and bare fact.viii Each degree has its own contextual habitat, conventions of technique, and modes of transmission from one more or less controlled context to the next. There are degrees of factuality, corresponding to species of science. Gestalt is one such species. As are “traditional knowledges” and informal or “folkloric” knowings of many kinds. These species co-exist, co-adapt, and mutually influence one another. In short, there is a global ecology of knowledge practices.