The self-activity of one color-dimension seems to have interacted with the others to produce an unattributable color. The new color was an experienced effect of that interaction. The anomalous memory-color which the subjects experienced in spite of themselves resulted from a self-activating resonance-effect between the ingredient dimensions of color. In other words, the actually experienced memory-color was a free-floating global effect of the ingredients’ interaction. It may have been sparked off by a liveliness of one dimension, but it is no more reducible to that dimension than the spark produced by a striking match is reducible to the combustibility of sulphur. A match spark is as much a product of the wood, the striking surface and the hand as it is of the sulphur and its chemical properties. But even to equate the event of the spark with the interaction of its necessary ingredients would be inaccurate. The spark is the expression of the interaction. It leaps out from it. It takes flight from it, following its own self-extinguishing trajectory. What makes it an event is that it catapults the ingredient’s belonging-together in a way that enables other lines of process to take it up, even as it is extinguished, from the angle of what it may become: fire. The spark-event is the ingredients’ global interaction brought out, in such as way as to stand (or fly) for its own furtherance: its potential. The spark is a sign, served to the eye, of a fire augured for the next strike. It is the coming fire, for the eye, as it might be for the skin (of careless fingers). Two divergent series, in a flash: friction to fire; sight to touch. The spark-event is a self-extinguishing transition-effect (a sign) expressing continuation. At the same stroke, it serves as an effective hinge between discontinuous seriations. The enjoined process lines, however different in kind and divergent in path, are intimately entwined by their hinging on the same event: their being part of the same situation. Contexts are defined by typical interactions between more or less invariant ingredients (the contexts’ meaningful “contents”). Situations express the belonging-together of the ingredients from the angle of their joint potential, their enjoined becoming. Call the signed, expressed belonging-together relationality. Context is to situation as interaction is to relation (as content is to expression).