“Topology” and “non-Euclidean” are not synonyms. Although most topologies are non-Euclidean, there are Euclidean topologies.iv A Möbius strip or a Klein bottle are Euclidean figures, of one and two dimensions respectively. The distinction that is most relevant here is between topological transformation and static geometric figure: between the process of arriving at a form through continuous deformation, and the determinate form arrived at when the process stops. An infinite number of static figures may be extracted from a single topological transformation. The transformation is a kind of super-figure that is defined not by invariant formal properties, but by continuity of transformation. For example, a torus and a coffee-cup belong to the same topological figure because one can be deformed into the other without cutting. Anything left standing when the deformation is stopped at any moment, in its passage through any point in-between, also belongs to their shared figure. The overall topological figure is continuous and multiple. As a transformation, it is defined by vectors rather than coordinate points. A vector is transpositional: a moving-through points. Because of its vectorial nature, the geometry of the topological  superfigure cannot be separated from its duration. The figure is what runs-through an infinity of static figures. It is not itself determinate, but determinable.  Each static figure stands for its determination, but does not exhaust it. The overall figure exceeds any of its discrete stations, and even all of them taken together as an infinite set. This is because between any two points in Euclidean space, no matter how close, lies another definable point. The transformation joining the points in the same superfigure always falls between Euclidean points. It recedes, continuously, into the between. The topological superfigure in itself is the surplus passing-through between Euclidean spatial coordinates. Logically, it is not sequential, even though it is oriented (vectorial). It is recessively transitional. In this essay, the word “non-Euclidean” is used as a convenient short-hand for a space of this kind: one that cannot be separated from its duration due to a transitional excess of movement. “Non-Euclidean” is a good-enough nontechnical term for dynamic or durational “spaces” that do not fit into the classical Euclidean (actually Cartesian) intuition of space as a triple-axis coordinate-box containing things. In this view, widely thought to correspond to our everyday experience, time is an independent variable adding a fourth, formally distinct, dimension to the traditional three of space. Topologically speaking, space and time are dependent variables. They are not formally distinguishable. They cannot be separated from each other without stopping the process and changing its nature (Euclideanizing it). The relation of the dimensions of space to that of time is one of mutual inclusion. This mutual inclusion, and the strange logical and especially experiential effects associated with it, is what is termed a “hyperspace” for the purposes of this essay. It may be noted in passing that even a Euclidean topological figure may generate a surplus-effect, although in a more static vein. A Möbius strip is a two-dimensional figure whose twisting creates a 2-D effect. A Klein bottle is a two dimensional figure whose folding in on itself creates a 3-D effect. The “effects” are real, but not part of the formal definition of the figure. They are in the figure as it is really experienced, adding another quality to it, in its standing-out from its formal limits. They are extra-definitional stand-out or pop-out effects. The word “hyperspace” may also be applied to experiential surplus-dimension effects of this kind, whatever the geometry. Experience itself may be defined as a hyperdimensional reality: the “being” of the excess of effect over any determinate spatial configuration. As the following argument from synesthesia asserts, the “shape” of experience must be considered a one-sided topological transformation: an abstract, in-between (recessive or pop-out) “surface” for the reception, storage, and reaccess of qualitative hyper-effectivity.