Look at what a referee actually does. A referee stops the action. The referee stops and reflects. The intervention of the referee is an interruption that opens the way for an application of the rules. A different kind of opening, onto an inverse movement. The rules, it was argued above, are retrospective. They are a codifying follow-up to emergence that folds back on becoming. The operation of the application is to isolate a move in a way that pins responsibility for its sensible effects on a single playing body. What the move and the body are being isolated from is the immanence of the field of potential. The disciplinary stoppage momentarily depotentializes the field in a way that makes its intensive elements appear to the trained perceiver as separate terms in extrinsic relation to one another. Channelings of global modulations of the field whose conditions are thoroughly collective are reduced to local moves of individual origin and deviant effect. It is now the player, not the sport, that is individualized, by the disciplinary, regulatory, group-authorized and group-recognized application of the rules. This individualization is a fiction--an effectively regulating fiction--predicated on a stoppage of the play. The rules of the game and their application are transcendent to the play. It is the intervention of a transcendent operation in the continual variation of the field of immanence that makes the nodes of expression appear as discrete, substantial terms in extrinsic relation to each other. From the point of view of the rules, the codifiable form of that extrinsic relating determines the intrinsic properties of the play: fair or foul. The field of immanence is interrupted by an operation of transcendence that institutes a regime of intrinsic-extrinsic relationality predicated on the interruption of immanent relationality. The authorized set of movements between already-constituted terms is reaffirmed. The dimension of the play is reduced to a repetitive space of disciplinary regulation. Change, variation, is captured and contained. Immanent modulation of the play cedes to an overaching model of the game.