The transmission of media images has transductively converted sports potential-and-containment into gender potential-and-containment. The event has migrated, changing in nature as it went. Media transmission is the becoming of the event. All of the operations figuring on the playing field re-figure in the striking field. Re-figure, and re-configure: induction, transduction, catalysis; signs, part-object, part-subject; expression application (folding back), coding; capture and containment. When the event-dimension migrates to a new space, its elements modulate. There is no general model for the catalysis of an event. Every time an event migrates, it is re-conditioned. In the home-space, the television and the images it transmits are inductive signs. The images are also transducers. And they contribute to the catalysis of the domestic event. The television set combines sign, part-object, and part-subject functions, making it a key term in the home space. In spite of multiple operations attached to it, the television is a less powerful catalyzer than the soccer ball. Although domestic violence events are widespread, they do not occur with the regularity with which soccer play is triggered by the arrival of the ball in a event-primed stadium. In both cases, the overall field of potential within which the event transpires is composed of sub-fields. For example the application in the stadium of the rules of the game, and the reactions of the audience, can be seen as having their own fields of potential, primed by inductive signs proper to them, and having their own specialized transducers. Every field of potential occurs at the intersection of a plurality of sub-fields of potential, each composed of a heterogeneity of elements. The fields intersecting around the home event-space are just as complexly layered as those of the stadium, if not more so. However, its sub-fields (home architecture, dwelling habits, unconscious gender patterning, conscious gender ideology, and so on) are more loosely held together. The home space is not codified--there is no rule-book governing the production of the event of domestic violence, or on the other hand of caring. Domesticity is coded. Coding is also modelling, but not through formal regulation. The modelling occurs through the accumulation of already-constituted relations, contracted into bodies as habit (which includes belief: habituated meaning). Of course, formal regulation is part of the mix (civil law covering marriage and cohabitation and criminal law covering personal injury). But overall, the power formation of the domestic operates through the informal production of regularities, as opposed to the formal application of regulations.