1) Coding and codification are forms of event-self-referentiality--the folding back of the event onto itself, toward its repetition. The folding back, the self-referencing, is what converts the event into an event-space. The regularization or regulation effecting this conversion must be conceived as having its own conditions and field of potential. The physicality of the event-space (house or stadium) is doubled by a dynamic abstraction proper to it, one governing its own repeatability, as distinct from the repeatability of the events it hosts. Every event-space proliferates. Houses come by the suburb, and stadiums in leagues. As coded or codified, the event-space is reproducible. Its reproduction  provides an inductive ground for the serial emergence of subsequent events. These are deemed to be the "same" by virtue of occurring in what has become a recognizable space. A type of space. It is the typing of the physical event- space--the invariance (regularity or regulation) of the substantial elements entering its mix--that makes the incorporeal events emerging from it recognizably the "same." (This is why "isolation," "defamiliarization," "distancing" or "decontextualization"--ways of freeing the event from its regular event-space--are so often cited as conditions of "art" as a practice of transformation resisting containment by social or cultural power formations.) The recognizability of the space lends itself to the event, like an after-image of substantial invariance on the incorporeality of variation. The typing of the space tinges the multiple events doubling it with generality, giving already-constituted meaning and reflection a tongue-hold on the unspeakably singular (only sensible) self-expression of the events--each of which retains a residue of uniqueness in excess over its recognition as belonging to a type. Recognition makes an event typical. That is to say, boring. Its residue of uniqueness makes it "interesting" (an attractor, an inducting sensation) for a body positioned outside its space (with a perspective on it). The event-dimension of self-referentiality is the inclusion in becoming (as a multiple-singular; a proliferation of uniqueness) of the anti-event-space of generality (recognizability, sameness) and its perceptual concomitant (perspective). Self-referentiality, as a subdimension of the event, is the field of potential of transcendence-become-immanent. "Interest" is the sign of that inclusion.