Technologically assisted channeling of event-transitivity constitutes a qualitatively different mode of power than either the regulating codifications of the Static or the regularizing codings of the "social" or "cultural," at whose self-referential thresholds it is continually knocking. The transitive (a less fraught term than "communicational") must be seen as the dominant mode of power in what some are apt to call the "postmodern" condition. Its network is what connects coding to coding, codification to codification, coding to codification, and each to its own repetitions, in an ebb and flow of potentialization-and-containment. The network distributes. Interlinks. Relates. The network is the relationality of that which it distributes. It is the being of collective becoming. Communicational technologies give body to relationality as such, and as set in motion, as such--as the passing-on of the event. The passing of the event is distinct both from the technology of transmission that is its corporeal double, and from its delivery on the other side of the threshold. The passing, event-transitivity in itself, in becoming, is the interval that encompasses--occupying every threshold. Every "enclosure" is encompassed by a pure immanence of transition. The medium of "communication" is not the technology. It is the interval itself: the moveability of the event, the displacement of change, relationality outside its terms, "communication" without content, communicability. Encompassed, the Static and the regularized transpire in an atmosphere of modulation. It is precisely their job to realize modulation as a local modification: to produce a condensate of the modulatory atmosphere, giving terms to relationality and content to communicability. This is an obverse kick. The delivery of the soccer kick converted a terms in movement into their singular relation. It was a local modification that converted into a modulation. Here, it is modulation that is delivered, and upon delivery converted into a local modification. The modulation, at the threshold, is indeterminate, a communicability. No longer singularly differentiated. Over the threshold, it helps catalyze a local modification, which then effects a singular modulation of the relationality of the event-space entered, a smaller-scale modulation proper to the plane of immanence doubling the home. This potentialization is no sooner effected than contained. House-held actions, like sports kicks, operate within a tight circuit between potentialization (the singular) and containment (the general-particular) within a given space of self-reference. The obverse kick of the "communicational" changes the standing of the space into which it is delivered. It opens it, prying into its self-referencing without deactivating its potentialization-and-containment circuit. It pipes itself in through a many-dimensioned delivery line that thresholds the potentialization-and-containment with indeterminacy on all sides. The singular and the general-particular come to hinge on the indeterminate. Or swim in it, since the encompassing threshold is not a door but an inundative medium of flow. "Communications" is the traffic in modulation, de-singularized.  A kick is resistance (more in the frictional sense than the oppositional one: a rub against the rules, rather than a breaking of them).