The networking of event-transmission must be seen as extending to information in general, to commodities, and to money: to any sign whose basic operation is to flow, and whose inductive/transductive effect must be "realized" (whose catalytic role must be catalyzed; whose expression must be expressed). All of these event-transmitters carry a high charge of indeterminacy, of unrealized (in present vocabulary, "unactualized") potential. What they are, what their event will be, what will be expressed with or through them, is highly variable, since they are complexly co-catalyzed by the heterogeneous elements populating the proliferating spaces they enter. Event-transmitters are inductive/transductive signs roving for catalysis, across many a proliferation. Their readiness to catalyze--their aptitude for part-subjecthood--is also highly variable. The ready-most is money, a sign whose simple appearance in any situation is sure to incorporeally transform it in one way or another. The least catalytic is information. Each event-transmitter is sustained and delivered by a dedicated collective apparatus deploying at least one technology of channeling that gives it body in the interval, where it disappears into its own immanence (even low-tech transmitters return to immanence: letters are mailed sealed in an envelope, their meaning re-latent). The intervallic bodies are of many types, ranging from mail boxes and post offices to telephone lines to computers to the many and varied institutions and instruments of finance. These knot together into an expanding capillary network traversing every event-space, with ever-increasing complexity (most recently focusing on the World-Wide Web, but including such pedestrian operations as computerized mail sorting). In the complexity of their interlinkage, they form an encompassing threshold-space of transitivity that can no longer be ignored as a global power formation in its own right. That power formation has a name: capitalism. For money, as means of payment or of investment, is the only event-transmitter that traverses every event-space, without exception. Capital is the capillary network of the capillary, the circulator of the circulation, the motor of transitivity--the immanence of immanence-embodied. The inside limit of the relational.