A logic of relation leads to a materialist realism. With a difference. The "material" and the "real" are now on the order not of the subjective or objective, but of sensation. And sensation is incorporeal. It is the being of the substantial as relation, the body in its becoming-together with other bodies. In the interval. Sensation fills the interval, it is what happens in the interval. The "incorporeal" is thus very different from the "immaterial." The incorporeal is a real and material: it is material potential, the dynamism of matter, matter in its energetic phase, matter as modulation, insubstantiality as a dimension of matter, real and material yet abstract. The opposition or contradiction between the material and the immaterial is replaced by phased co-conditioning of the corporeal (self-standing perception) and the incorporeal (the effect arising from perceptions in their intermixture; what comes of the perception of perception; what becomes of perception doubled over). That co-conditioning is the corporeal and incorporeal as natural expressions of each other. For the modulation of the incorporeal is necessarily doubled by a modification of the corporeal, and vice versa. That vice-versal is the singularity of the event. Circuit. Substance and immateriality are fictionalizations of the circuit of the corporeal and the incorporeal, their phasing into and out of each other converted into a dialectic. Accompanying that conversion is a conversion of the singular into the general-particular. Of course, fiction also has a kind of reality. Its reality is that of an effect, the general-particular effect of language. This language-effect (fortunately, there are others) does not easily circuit back, but instead mires in a dialectical impasse. The reality of fiction in this sense (fortunately, there are again others) is that of linguistic blockage: anti-event. "Subject," "object," "culture," "society" are signs of a blockage of the movement between the corporeal and the incorporeal, trapped on the level of language.