When Reagan enters the space of movement-vision, he is leaving behind the empirical world as he knew it. He is coincid­ing with a perspective that is neither that of his plain old self vis-à-vis the others and objects populating his everyday world, nor that of the others in that world vis-à-vis him as an object in their sight. He leaves the intersub­jec­tive world of the other-in-the-self, self and other identity bound in mutual missed-recogni­tion, for a space of dislocation, the space of movement-as-such, sheer trans­form­ation. There, movement is continuously fractur­ed, unhinged from subject and object, and they from each as other. The eye is out of its socket, hovering on an exorbital axis of vision, seeing elsewhere as a kind of other without other, actually seeing distance, the in-itself of distance, the as-such of differ­ence-from. Seeing oneself as others see one in fact means occupying an axis of vision on a tangent to self and other, both as actual entities and as conditions of identity. It is to enter a space that opens an outside perspec­tive on the self-other, subject-object axis. The tangent point at which movement-vision meets mirror-vision and diverges from it is the space between the subject-object poles, super­posed, fractured, multi­plied. It is relationality in itself, freed from its terms.iv
How can this be construed as completeness? Clues can be found in Reagan’s recounting of the one time as an actor that he achieved this vision. It happened when he was called upon “to portray a scene of total shock.”v It was in King’s Row, and he had to play a young, handsome “blade” who has an accident and wakes up to find that the bottom half of his body has been amputated. “Coming from unconsciousness to full realiza­tion of what had happened in a few seconds, it presented me with the most challenging acting problem in my career.” Reagan continues:
A whole actor would find such a scene difficult; giving it the necessary dramatic impact as half an actor was murderous. I felt I had neither the experience nor the talent to fake it. I had to find out how it really felt, short of actual amputation. I rehear­sed the scene before mirrors, in corners of the studio, while driving home, in the men’s room of restaurants, before selected friends. At night I would wake up staring at the ceiling and automatically mutter the line before I went back to sleep. I consulted physicians and psychologists; I even talked to people who were so disabled, trying to brew in myself the cauldron of emotions a man must feel who wakes up one sunny morning to find half of himself gone. I got alot of answers. I supplied some more for myself. None of mine agreed with any of theirs. Theirs did not agree with each other. I was stumped.