Thus far the body without an image has been discussed exclu­sively as an optical effect. But here are other modes of perception involved. The spatiality of the body without an image can be understood even more immediately as an effect of proprio­cep­tion, defined as the sensibil­ity proper to the muscles and ligaments, as opposed to tactile sensibility (which is “extero­ceptive”) and visceral sensibility (which is “interoceptive”).xi Tactility is the sensibility of the skin as surface of contact between the perceiving subject and the perceived object. Proprio­ception folds tactility into the body, enveloping the skin’s contact with the external world in a dimension of medium depth: between exodermis and viscera. The muscles and ligaments register as conditions of movement what the skin internalizes as qualities: the hardness of the floor under foot as one looks into a mirror becomes a resistance enabling station and movement; the softness of the fur of a cat becomes a lubricant of hand motion. Propriocep­tion translates the exertions and ease of the body’s encounters with objects into a muscular memory of relationality. This is the cumulative memory of skill, habit, posture. At the same time as proprioception folds tactility in, it draws out the subject’s reactions to the qualities of the objects it perceives through all five senses, bringing them into the motor realm of externaliz­able res­ponse. Proprio­cep­tion effects a double translation of the subject and the object into the body, at a medium depth where the body is only body, having nothing of the putative profundity of the self nor of the superfi­ciality of external encounter. This asubjec­tive and nonobjec­tive medium depth is one of the strata proper to the corpor­eal; it is a dimension of the flesh. The memory it consti­tutes could be diagrammed as a superposition of vectorial fields composed of multiple points in varying relations of movement and rest, pressure and resis­tance, each field corresponding to an action. Since it is composed of interactions subtracted from their actual terms, it is abstract in the same sense as is the included disjunction of movement-vision. Propriocep­tive memory is where the infolded limits of the body meet the mind’s exter­nalized responses, and where both rejoin the quasicorporeal and thence the event. As infolding, the faculty of propriocep­tion operates as a corporeal transformer of tactility into quasicorporeal­ity. It is to the skin what movement-vision is to the eyes. Its vectors are perspectives of the flesh. Although movement-vision opens onto the same space as propriocep­tion, the latter can be said to be the mode of perception proper to the spatiality of the body without an image because it opens exclusively onto that space, whereas the eyes also see in the intersubjec­tive space of mirror-vision, and because it registers qualities directly and continuously as movement, whereas the eyes do not register movement without also registering its arrest, in other words form (the visual image insofar as it is susceptible to geometric express­ion; movement as captured in a still, snapshot, or tableau giving it measure and propor­tion). It is because vision interrupts movement with formed images that it must interrupt itself to see movement as such.