Just as the spatiality of the body without an image opens out onto another time-form, its temporality opens out onto another space. This opening occurs in a second dimension of the flesh: one that is deeper than the stratum of proprio­ception, in the sense that it is farther removed from the surface of the skin; but it is still at a medium depth, in that it also intervenes between the subject and the object. It too involves a cellular memory, and has a mode of perception proper to it: visceral­ity (“interoception”). Visceral sensibility immediate­ly registers excitations gathered by the five “exteroce­ptive” senses, even before they are fully processed by the brain.xiii Walking down a dark street at night in a dangerous part of town, your lungs throw a spasm before you conscious­ly see and can recognize as human the shadow thrown across your path. As you cross a busy noonday street, your stomach turns somersaults before you consciously hear and can identify as brakes the screeching careen­ing toward you. Having survived the danger, you enter your building. Your heart stops before you consciously feel the tap on your shoulder and identify it as the greeting of a friend. The immediacy of visceral perception is so radical that it can be said without exaggeration to precede the exteroceptive sense perception. It anticipates the translation of the sight or sound or touch perception into something recognizable associated with an identifiable object. Call that “something recognizable” a quality (or property). Movement-vision as proprioception su­btracts qualified form from movement; viscerality subtracts quality as such from excitation. It regist­ers intensity. The dimension of viscerality is adjacent to that of propriocep­tion, but they do not overlap. The dimension of proprioception lies midway between stimulus and response, in a region where infolded tactile encounter meets externaliz­ing response to the qualities gathered by all five senses. It performs a synthesis of those intersecting pathways in the medium of the flesh, thus opened to its own quasicorporeality. Viscer­ality, though no less of the flesh, is a rupture in the stimulus-response paths, a leap in place into a space outside action-reaction circuits. Viscerality is the perception of suspense. The space into which it jolts the flesh is one of an inability to act or reflect, a spasmodic passivity, so taut a receptivity that the body is paralyzed until it is jolted back into action-reaction by recognition. Call it the space of passion.xiv Its elementary units are neither the absolute perspec­tives of movement-vision, nor the vectorial fields of propriocep­tion proper, but degrees of intensity. The space of passion constitutes a quasiqualitative realm adjacent to the quasi­corporeal.xv Say that every absolute perspec­tive/vec­torial field composing the quasicorpo­real is associated with a certain intensity, a higher or lower degree of spas­modic passivity. The intensity can be thought of as filling the interval of quasicorporeal space with a time-derivative, as bathing its relationality with spatialized suspense. If quasicorporeality is a maximal­ly abstract spatial matrix, intensity is the nonqualified substance occupy­ing it. Passion, then, is best understood less as an abstract space than as the time-stuff of spatial abstrac­tion. Call the coupling of a unit of quasicor­pore­ality with a unit of passion an affect: an ability to affect and a susceptibility to be affected. An emotion or feeling is a recognized affect, an identified intensity as reinjected into stimulus-response paths, into action-reaction circuits of infolding and external­ization‑-in short, into subject-object relations. Emotion is a contamination of empirical space by affect, which belongs to the body without an image.