Now it just so happens that the way in which Katz’s subjects positively produced their mismatch is quite telling. They “almost always” selected a color that was “too bright to match a bright object,” “too dark to match a dark object,” and “too saturated to match an object which is known to have a distinct hue.” The co-functioning of language, memory and affect “exaggerates” color. The exaggeration, Katz remarks, results from the “absolute striking character” of certain “color-peculiarities.” The remembering of a color is not effectively a reproduction of a perception, but a transformation or becoming of it. Matching, it would seem, is not inherent to the mechanism of color memory. Testing a correspondence between a past perception and a present one is what the experimenter does with the memory he is given. He takes the memory-color generated by his subject and submits it to a test of identity. He tests it for standard. What the subject does, it turns out, exceeds the standard. While the experimenter is representing standards, the subject is  surreptitiously trucking with singularity. He or she is exaggeratedly conveying an “absolutely striking peculiarity of color.” The memory of the friend’s eyes is in some way too “blue”: excess. The remembered color exceeds the testable meaning of the word. In the name of color constancy, the subject has expressed a singular and excessive becoming of color. Between “blue” used as the trigger for the production of a memory, and “blue” used to test the identity of that memory, something extra has slipped in which the color-word, as the common property of the experimenter and the subject, does not designate. The too-blue of the friend’s eyes dodges the standardizing language that triggers and tests it. It is spoken or written only negatively, as a miss. It is on that basis that it enters language, in the experimenter’s reporting of the test results. A normative deployment of language has provoked the production of a singular excess of meaning. Then in a second moment, of reporting about the production, that deployment brings the excess-over-itself into itself. Language is operating simultaneously to standardize (reduce) and convey (express) an ineffable singularity of experience.