Schizoanalysis was Guattari’s antimodel proposition. He called it a “metamodel.” A metamodel, for Guattari, is a nonmodel that upsets existing formations of power and knowledge, challenging the tendency of models to “operate largely by exclusion and reduction, tightly circumscribing their applications and contact with heterogeneity” (Genosko and Murphie 2008). Metamodeling makes felt lines of formation. It does not start from one model in particular, but actively takes into account the plurality of models vying for fulfillment. Metamodeling is against method, active in its refutation of preexisting modes of existence, meta in the sense of mapping abstract formative conjunctions in continuing variation. As Gary Genosko and Andrew Murphie write: “Metamodeling de-links modeling with both its representational foundation and its mimetic reproduction. It softens signification by admitting a-signifying forces into a model’s territory; that is, the centrality and stability of meaningfulness is displaced for the sake of singularity’s unpredictability and indistinctness. What was hitherto inaccessible is given room to manifest and project itself into new and creative ways and combinations. Metamodeling is in these respects much more precarious than modeling, less and less attached to homogeneity, standard constraints, and the blinkers of apprehension” (2008). Whether we call it metamodeling, or whether we think of it as study or call it research-creation or radical empiricism, it is the question of how knowledge is crafted in each singular instance of a practice’s elaboration that is key. An engaged encounter with the very constitutive nature of knowledge—be it at the level of new forms of subjectivity, or in the reorientation of how thinking and doing coexist—is necessarily a disruptive operation that risks dismantling the strong frames drawn by disciplines and methodological modes of inquiry. Of course, we’ve been saying this, in one way or another, for decades. But disciplinarity tends to win out, again and again.10 This is why we need the undercommons, an emergent site that does more than question the academic institution and its role in society. In the under-
commons, where emergent collectivity is the order of the day, appetition trumps nostalgia, inventing metamodels that experiment with how knowledge can and does escape instrumentality, bringing back an aesthetics of experience where it is needed most: in the field of learning.