In neurotypically inflected experience, the more-than also plays an important role. It is simply more backgrounded. Here, the challenge is often the opposite: we neurotypicals, especially the ones interested in processual activities such as artmaking, or those of us engaged in exploring movement, must learn to develop techniques to chunk less quickly, and must habituate ourselves to the idea that form is not the concrete and finite structure we have likely been taught it is.11 Our challenge is to become more attentive to how the more-than is eclipsed in our perceptions of experience and, in so doing, to become more attuned to what James calls pure experience. James writes: “My thesis is that if we start with the supposition that there is only
one primal stuff or material in the world, a stuff of which everything is composed, and if we call that stuff ‘pure experience,’ then knowing can easily be explained as a particular sort of relation towards one another into which portions of pure experience may enter. The relation itself is a part of pure experience; one of its ‘terms’ becomes the subject or bearer of the knowledge, the knower, the other becomes the object known” (1996: 4). Pure experience suggests that all experience is relational, knower and known defined not in advance of the occasion but in the midst. James continues: According to my view, experience as a whole is a process in time, whereby innumerable particular terms lapse and are superseded by others that follow upon them by transitions which, whether disjunctive or conjunctive in content, are themselves experiences, and must in general be accounted at least as real as the terms which they relate. . . . In such a world transitions and arrivals (or terminations) are the only events that happen, though they happen by so many sorts of path. The only function that one experience can perform is to lead into another experience; and the only fulfillment we can speak of is the reaching of a certain experienced end. When one experience leads to (or can lead to) the same end as another, they agree in function. But the whole system of experiences as they are immediately given presents itself as a quasichaos through which one can pass out of an initial term in many directions and yet end in the same terminus, moving from next to next by a great many possible paths. (1996: 62–63)