For Blackman, another role the facilitator plays involves “standing in” to activate her visual field. Blackman’s technique for this is “to make the other person a part of my visual field” (2013: 81). She reasons that the necessity comes from having lived with “real problems knowing exactly where my connectional limbs and trunk were, where they would move to next, and, even more frighteningly, where they had last been positioned” (2013: 81). Facilitation, and specifically the body of the facilitator, is here used as an enabling constraint—it allows the field of vision to settle around a specific area. This kind of “mirror imaging,” as Blackman calls it, controls her “visual fluctuations” by setting up a living boundary or an orbit around a certain situation. Blackman does this by borrowing what she perceives as her facilitator’s body-space to secure a landing in a more coherent fielding of time and space. Blackman describes it this way:
[Imagine] a hypothetical little old lady walking in the same direction I am. As she moves, so do I because her body is now mine—that is until her movement is out of kilter with what I project as the future. In that event I float off, or if really terrified, . . . I scream and then bite my hand on the existing scar below my thumb. . . . I can’t see why other people cannot understand that people with autism need the other partner in an interaction to do what my mother describes as “socialize for two.” (2013: 81)
If we take Blackman’s example and read it from the perspective of a body-world continuum—“[not] knowing exactly where my connectional limbs and trunk were, where they would move to next, and, even more frighteningly, where they had last been positioned”—it seems to me that what is happening in the mirroring is not the taking-over of a body, but a doubling onto a becoming-body. Blackman must do this to land because the dimensions of her existence are still orbiting. In this case, the facilitator acts as the agencement for the bodying.