I would like to address Bifo’s remarks through a return to Wretches and Jabberers, turning to a few scenes where conversations about activism take place. Shortly after having arrived in India, in dialogue with Chammi, Larry types: “I think we are big time movers making a difference in peoples’ lives who can’t talk.” The words don’t come easily, and Larry has to fight a meltdown to get them out, but still he finds a way to turn the conversation to what is most important: the activist movement for neurodiversity. A similar encounter happens in Japan. Naoki, a prolific autistic writer and artist who lives in Tokyo, runs up and down the stairs and seems to jump off the walls before he can sit down to write. But then the words come, without pleasantries, immediately addressing the urgent questions at hand. From Larry to Naoki: “Mobilize letters like patterns of thought like proud autistics we are.” No time for small talk: every word an effort. Writing, thinking, is in the act. And necessarily so, for the stakes are clear. Tracy, who travels around the world with Larry for the making of the film, does not at the time of the filming have a home: living conditions for autistic adults are extremely precarious. Even though he serves on two state-level advocacy committees, he depends on people who are paid to take care of him, and wonders every day whether he will be able to continue to afford to pay them. And yet his commitment to neurodiversity is unwavering. Depression, anxiety, the agony of difference—these all remain. But they are not decisive in the way Bifo suggests they are. Rather, they are productive, expressive of the multiplicity of experience out of which the movement for neurodiversity composes. “Let’s begin the world’s intelligence magnified organization,” Tracy types in conversation with Naoki and Larry. In Finland, a similar encounter occurs. In their first conversation, again without preamble, Antti, who spends his days in a care center folding towels and doing other kinds of busywork, types: “I’m interested in talking about our current experience, how we have changed as people. . . . I think now is a good time to bind the strings of friendship between us strong people who will pass the message.” Later Tracy adds: “We are a perfect example of intelligence working itself out in a much different way.”