We tend to divide movement into two general categories: reflexes or automatic movements, on the one hand, and directed or volitional movements, on the other. We are taught that reflex, which is considered instinctual and therefore less refined than volitional movement, is a direct, nonconscious response in the event to a cause. A parent running into the street to grab their child before it gets hit by a car is engaged in automatic movement, suddenly capable of amazing acts of strength and stamina, all of which take place nonconsciously. Directed, or volitional movement, on the other hand, is defined as strategized movement. Because it is considered to be beyond instinct, directed movement is said to be more free than automatic movement. After all, it is conscious, and consciousness is said to be a prerequisite for freedom. One sign of this freedom is that volitional movement is said to be able to resist the strict overlay of cause onto effect. For instance, during a game, a soccer player might be taught a strategy that includes moving in a certain way on the field, but she is equally expected to be able to consciously, that is, volitionally, alter course if necessary. Indeed, the soccer player’s talent is often measured by this “free act” of movement she is expected to be able to undertake in the split second of a change in play. This differentiation between conscious and nonconscious movement, between so-called “free” movement, on the one hand, and automatic or reflex movement, on the other, is problematic for several reasons. First, it hierarchizes forms of movement according to conscious behavior, ignoring the complex tendings within consciousness that open it to nonconscious inflections. Second, it classifies as primitive forms of movement that are alive in the event, thus situating autistic perception, for instance, on the side of reflex and neurotypical perception on the side of volition, thereby further cementing the hierarchy. It also confuses two levels of cause and effect in its account of freedom.