What is at stake in the field of relation is how the relation evolves, how it expresses itself, what it becomes, what it can do. The relation can never be properly called human. It may pass through the human or connect to certain human tendencies, but in and of itself, it is always more-than human.
The question of the nonhuman or the more-than-human is of central importance as regards what a body can do. A bodying begins and returns to the midst, to the relational field that is more-than human. A focus on the middling of experience leads us toward a modality of thinking the becoming-body in a directly ecological sense in terms of an ecology of practices that includes the human but is not limited to the human. One of the ways I have tried to address this directly ecological experience of the world is through what I have called autistic perception. I define autistic perception as a direct experience of emergent field effects. When autistics first perceive, they do not tend to see forms as nonautistics do. Instead, they see perception’s very emergence: edges, shadows, colors, shapes. What takes a half second for a neurotypical to perceive as form can take up to five minutes for an autistic. This lag in the taking of form allows autistics to perceptually dwell in the shapeshifting of experience and gives them a lived sense of the malleability of form. This is not completely outside neurotypical experience, it is simply less often directly experienced—artists hone such perceptual tendencies, and they are not unfamiliar to those who drink or take drugs, or those who experience extreme states due to shock or love or fear. However we come to autistic perception, what is important, I think, is the taking account of a phase of experience where it is the associated milieu of relation which is at the forefront not only conceptually, but perceptually. Were we to honor such a perceptual account of process, I think we might come to see the everyday quite differently. This would then have important effects not only on our experience of the world, but on what we do collectively, politically.