AB: If we take bodies as worldwide entities, the global field, which they share, becomes one of the most important features of any body. Deleuze even speaks of a transcendental field, the all-oneworld which any body shares with all others by populating it.
EM: I think of this as worlding, and it reminds me of the necessity to consider the body always from the perspective of the collective, or the transindividual. I am thinking of an example here. In disability activism it is often said that disability is not what happens to the body—it is not about the state of the body. Disability is about a culture that does not accommodate diversity. So it is not the body (alone) that is disabled; the culture is disabled in its incapacity to create accommodations that allow for difference—different kinds of bodying—to exist. I am thinking about a disability activist, Harriet McBryde-Johnson, a lawyer. She once was invited by the New York Times to do a spread on her work for Not Dead Yet, an organization very much against euthanasia and assisted suicide. At first, when I was reading Harriet McBryde-Johnson as part of my ongoing research into disability politics, it was to better understand why it was that so many disability activists were so adamantly against assisted suicide. Because, from my perspective, it seemed that what a body can do is also choose to die. What I learned through my research was that not every body is given the same right to live. A disabled body is often a body seen by the medical establishment as not worthy of life. So a disabled person who has cancer doesn’t necessarily get the same kind of care as a nondisabled person. This happens in subtle ways— for instance, a doctor might be quicker to speak to the disabled person about palliative care, assuming that their quality of life is already jeopardized by their disability and that the further strain of treatment may not be worthwhile. This example, which comes up very often in disability activist blogs (see, for instance, Bad Cripple), emphasizes the way disability is taken as an individual rather than as a collective, cultural problem—an ecology of practices. To turn this around, it is necessary to keep asking not how this or that body performs, but how this singular field of relation opens itself to the complexity of bodying. In the case of disability, too often an individual normative standard is imposed that presumes able-bodiedness as the very definition of a body, ignoring the complexity of evolution within all bodyings.