Lately I’ve been trying to understand accommodation within this context of transindividual bodying. Within disability politics, as I mentioned, there tends to be an understanding that it is the lack of accommodation that creates the category of disability. This is no doubt true and needs to change: there needs to be a general understanding that making our worlds accessible to difference is to enrich them. But I want to push the term even further beyond the able-bodied/disabled divide, always keeping in mind that the disability cannot be reduced to the person; that it is rather the lack of accommodation in the everyday environment that creates the rift between the so-called able and the disabled. Everywhere I turn within the complex work that unfolds within disability activism, I find accounts of the frustrations of accommodation as it plays out in everyday life. The concerns are often pragmatic, though always engaged with philosophical questions about why accommodation is so difficult to fold into our cultural landscapes as both concept and act: why is it that the tables that “accommodate” wheelchairs in a restaurant tend to be in the worst possible places (beside the bathroom, out of sight), why is it that “accommodating” entrances are in the
back of hotels or in the bowels of buildings rather than out there in the open? Why isn’t every entrance designed to accommodate difference, and why is it that there is a sense, still very strong within architecture (and within so many of our practices) that accommodation is a nasty afterthought? The issue also goes deeper, touching on what is imaginable (thinkable, perceivable) within the field of experience—I wonder here, for instance, about the way in which thresholds between rooms become apparent if you’re in a wheelchair, or if you’re blind, but otherwise may not “appear” in experience. Without underestimating these important pragmatic issues, I wonder whether there might be a way to take back the term “accommodation” to speak about all bodyings, thereby opening up the question beyond the categories of the able and the disabled. Is there any event that does not require accommodation? Are we willing to think of what a body can do in a way that takes seriously how the event accommodates its shifting ecologies?