AB: You founded a SenseLab to make the care of the event matter? What kind of territory, what kind of accommodation, what kind of hospitality, of care, cura, curie, and courting takes place there?
EM: You touched on the core concept of the SenseLab, which is hospitality. But it isn’t an intersubjective hospitality, as you pointed out. It is an event-based hospitality. To create a thought-experiment, an actionexperiment like the SenseLab, the event has to be hospitable to learning, to thinking, and to the collaborative gesture that feeds both.
Eleven years into it, what I can say is that the event-based hospitality at the heart of our collective practice has made it possible for us to engender a culture of affirmation. I hadn’t really seen it this way until I heard a SenseLabber explain to someone else that what we do at the SenseLab is say yes! I loved this description and wondered how this practice of saying yes has fed our modes of collaboration, allowing us to develop ways of collective decision-making that are not based in a kind of Habermasian consensual politics. Thinking it through, it became clear to me that creating an affirmative practice doesn’t mean simply saying “Yes, I follow you through every aspect of this idea.” It means “Yes, we’ll try this and collectively hone the effects.” The question thus moves beyond how this or that is a “good” idea to what the idea can do in relation to the event with which it co-composes. The selection of one idea from the many becomes not a decision-making practice that takes place outside the event, but an emergent tuning from within the event. We follow the idea that best takes us wherever the event needs to go. This means that there is very little sense of who “owns” the idea. The idea becomes a proposition in the Whiteheadian sense: it does something, and that something has effects. If what it does is invigorate, intensify, make itself hospitable to the other event-based inflexions and tendencies, the idea takes hold. If not, that particular idea simply tends not to be developed then and there. But ideas do get re-taken-up later, suddenly reemerging in new contexts, often brought forward by different people than those who might originally have offered them up. What I like about this approach—an approach that emerged organically over time—is that it makes apparent that for an event to do its work, the event-potential of the idea must get taken up over the individual’s stake in it. This allows for forms of collaboration to emerge at the level of the incipiency of thought—in retrospect we often can’t remember whose idea it was in the first place.