AB: Very beautiful, very beautiful! What you said is also important for Susanne [Valerie] and me. Susanne comes from the arts and is highly interested in philosophy, and I come from philosophy and am highly interested in the arts. For us it was always important to do both, philosophy and art, or, what we call “philosophy on stage,” a mode of arts-based philosophy. Something we are hungry for and think is necessary. Today traditional academic philosophers have a lot of problems with bringing the arts together with philosophy. They think that “mixing” the arts with philosophy makes philosophy unserious. So would you—this is my last question—say something about your experience bringing art and philosophy together?
EM: Through the SenseLab, I’ve found an ever-evolving community of people who think at the interstices of thought-in-the-making (like you and Susanne, like Brian and so many others) and I’ve found that it is possible, through a transdisciplinary perspective, to reinvent what it means to create in the interval of making and thinking. This has made it easier not only to overcome the closed-mindedness of disciplinary boundaries but also to develop techniques that assist me in both becoming more rigorous as a philosopher and to have a more sustained practice as an artist. It’s taken time because the practices are not necessarily complementary, at least not in the way they make or take time in my own experience of them. What I mean by that is that I can’t easily move from writing to artmaking, or vice versa, because their ways of making and taking time are so different. I need to create holes of time that can be populated by each practice—holes that can capture the failures in the thinking and the making that are at the heart of creating new ways of approaching each medium. So a busy back-and-forth produces only frustration. Over the years the best approach I have found is to work in chunks, spending a period of two to three months reading and writing, and then changing gears completely and spending time in the studio. I rarely understand the link between the two practices while I am in the making, and I don’t try to impose one.