The event is alive with affective tonality. Its power is its capacity to feel. Its moods, its colors, its tones—all of these contribute to its leanings, to what it can do. Feeling is not after the fact—it is what moves the act. The will to power, the feeling of power, is similarly what directs the event, what propels the event to land in just this or just that way. Whitehead speaks of how an event has a concern for its unfolding. The feeling of power: the activation of a differential sensibility in the event.
This differential sensibility is more-than-human. Nietzsche writes: “The fact is that the will to power rules even in the inorganic world, or rather that there is no inorganic world. Action at a distance cannot be eliminated, for one thing attracts another and a thing feels itself attracted. This is the fundamental fact. . . . In order for the will to power to be able to manifest itself it needs to perceive the things it sees and feel the approach of what is assimilable to it” (Nietzsche 1968 in Deleuze 2002: 63). Action at a distance means that the event does not begin or end with the human. The human can be and often is an aspect of the more-than that pulses through the event, but the event is not delimited by the human. In this worlding, in the ecology of events pulsing from force to form, before there is a fully defined human, there is what Whitehead calls the self-enjoyment of the occasion. The event is replete with feeling, feeling not a subjective, conscious trait, but a mobile directionality, a potentializing tendency, in the event. How the event enjoys its coming-to-be will give it the color that will subsequently define it. This color will affect how the subject—or the superject, as Whitehead would say—comes to expression. The feeling of power is one way of articulating the qualitative complexity of what comes to be. Without the feeling of power, without the notion of the event’s selfenjoyment, the only qualitative potential lies in the human’s subjective judgment of the event. We are back at the dialectic.