These two truths are often at battle in therapeutic settings. Take the example of childhood abuse returned to later in life. One ubiquitous technique is to dig into the past to find the truth of the event. This technique aims to site the originary event as the cut after which everything changed. The therapy builds its narrative around this cut, returning to it as the symptom of all that follows. The tunnel becomes a regular passageway as memory becomes more and more stabilized. Cause-effect scenarios are inevitable here where the light is dim and the paths are straight. The problem is that knowing the truth of the event is rarely much help in alleviating the pain. This is why schizoanalysis takes a different approach, allying itself not to the excavation of truth and with it the thickening of the solitary tunnel walls, but to a collective architecting of mobility that is capable of creating new encounters with life-living. Schizoanalysis does not deny the past but nor does it seek to perseveratively return to it. Instead, it seeks modes of encounter that allow the narration to mutate, to fabulate.
Fabulations are lively with the power of the false. They distance themselves from the truth of first principles (including first cuts). They do so not to discount the pain and the horror of the abuse but to invest in the collective exploration of what life can be, here, now. For they recognize that what is most likely causing the unbearable pain is not only the truth of this “first” cut, but the myriad imperceptible cuts that followed and are still following, cuts that complicate the narration of the event precisely because the event is continuing and the life that is growing around it is changing. The excavation of a truth that would live in a past that could be located cannot account for these thousands of subsequent variations on the pain, variations that pass by almost imperceptibly but nonetheless deeply alter the color of experience. Nor can they account for the ways the variations may have included glimpses of other affective tonalities. The pain that is felt might also be more-than what it seems, including contrasts open to potentials too ineffable to articulate. Attuned to these incipient variations, to these minor gestures, techniques of schizoanalysis refrain from settling back into the what was not because they seek to ignore what happened but because the ecologies of experience that co-compose with life-living have already radically changed the stakes of what was. To affirm life-living is to affirm the difference that settles itself into life through these minor variations. What emerges from this affirmative stance is not a denial of the abuse, but a technique for composing with the complex patterns of a life capable of including more than one truth: valuation of life-living necessarily means growing truths for life. These truths, alive in the interstices of the imperceptible, are now recognized for the difference they make as incipient tendencies toward a different kind of accounting.