Satellite anarchiving projects have been organized in several locations: in Berlin organized by co-applicant Christoph Brunner and Diego Gil. Here, the Montreal hub sent a portion of the Anarchive to Europe where approximately 30 participants (including students) were engaging in a live research-creation around the anarchive. During March, another Anarchive iteration traveled to Australia, where it reached that hub of the Senselab. We have held skype sessions with Austalian hub, particularly Anna Munster, in order to develop the concept further and share research-findings across continents. Participant Rett Rossi has been involved via Skype from Berlin and in person in Montreal events of the Anarchive. Matthew-Robin Nye has curated a durational research-creation project in confluence with the Anarchive at the FOFA Gallery (featuring undergraduate, graduate and PhD students), and thought an undergraduate class in the Studio Arts department at Concordia University (ARTX 280: Interdisciplinary studio), where the class assignment was to work around the Anarchive. Names of students involved: William Carmichael (BFA student), Rudi Acker (BFA student), Clarie Terraillon (BFA student), Noémie Boisvenu-Fortin (BFA student), Gabe Chevallier (BFA student), Gabriel Dorais (BFA student), Stefabie Smylie (BFA student), Amanda Manson (BFA Student), Andrey Kolesov (BFA student), Camille Marcoux (BFA student), Lucas Regazzi (BFA Student), Mariana Moreno (BFA student), Rayna Bellwoar (BFA student), Blake Dunn (BFA student), Alisha Billias (BFA student). The Anarchive also has been activated during different events like: Techniques for Neurodiversity, where it shared anarchival techniques with more than a 50 participants, the Colloque de l'Imprévu (held in the former École des beaux-arts, Montreal). The European Hub is also developing a Digital Anarchive, an iteration of the same research-creation project. Here, the participants include Christoph Brunner, Jonas Fritsch, Søren Rasmussen, Gerko Egert, Toni Pape, Julia Bee, Bodil Marie Stavning Thomsen and more.