3.2 Folds - the vibration of the incompossible
If parasitic action was in a sense a continual performed splitting of relation, the interfacing that occurred in Re:Positioning Fear might also perhaps be thought as producing difference through connecting, through incitation or a ‘dynamics of infection’ [35] that worked to prolong and complexify. That is, through a folding of technological objects and bodies in interfacing something new was produced (art). As Murphie writes, this is a doubling that technologies can perform [36], in this case the body becoming-with the lights, the façade becoming-with shadows, portraits becoming-with movement and so on. This folding, rather than collapsing difference to produce a new homogenous history or façade, produced through multiplication new singularities that were performed alongside, throughout and in the gaps of the previously existing iterations. Folding could be seen here to be powerful in both the creation of actualized and potential foldings that the interfacing opened up; a bifurcating of future unfoldings that resonated within the event.
Interfacing here was a performative act by which the machine continued to re-fold its internal systems. It was also a machinic action folding elements outside itself into its workings, and these actions created, as Deleuze says, a ‘forced movement’ or ‘internal resonance’ within the system [37]. Thus it was a tactic that re-immersed or re-saturated the event with the virtual as it implicated machinic components in each other’s becoming through an ongoing process of variation and re-articulation. 
But I want to suggest that the more radical folding occurring in the interruption of Re:Positioning Fear through the re-commissioning of the shadow making machine might be seen as a fold of the outside. The ‘outside’ here is force in non-relation [38] (itself a disruptive gap in the relational field), that ‘eats into the interval and forces or dismembers the internal’ [39]. This can produce ‘trans-formation…to the composing forces, [which] enter in to a relation with the other forces which have come from the outside’ [40]. The participants’ shadow-body play was an outside of the event (not a potential), which was folded into emergent relation, at the level of force as well as form. By trans-forming forces shaping the event this folding transformed the affects of the event, since affect is what is experienced in the transduction of force [41]. The new affective tonality that was folded into the event coursed through, transducing, infecting all the systems constructing the event.
This outside, seen as the ‘incompossible’ (that which was excluded or divergent from the event [42]), defined the limit of the event [43]. Re:Positioning Fear had limits defining its concrescence both in the types of performances it produced and the potential from which it was drawn (various potential mutations of shadow playing with text, for example). The introduction of a whole new outside tactic of production through connections between participants co-composing relations together via the interfacing of their shadows then delimited the Re:Positioning Fear event. The tactic initiated new performances and fields of potential to compose with, even as it continued to drive towards its previously instigated concrescence. In redefining the limits and potential of the event, this folding of the incompossible was a more radically differential act. Such folding was, again, a positive generator of multiplicities of difference [44]. This difference was evident not particularly in a shift in the utility or materiality of the technical objects and other components of the assemblage, but as a force of qualitative change, of affective tonality. Interfacing here might be viewed as a vitality affect on a force, producing a felt moment of creative differing.