3.3 Concretization and the virtual
I want to suggest that it was through these particular interfacings that the machine of Re:Positioning Fear underwent a process of concretization. Processes of concretization shift systems from a limited, linear or closed functioning towards self-regulation and sustenance, and, consequently, towards a ‘solidarity of openness’ (that is, an increase in self-generative capacities) [45]. Re:Positioning Fear shifted from a fairly linear production that was to a certain extent its externally instigated functioning, towards the self organization of a new event that was less reliant on the artist’s conception of the event or on the original conceived utility of the technical objects. That is, the system moved from a more ‘abstract’ configuration, to a self-modulating model. The work’s differential tension became an intrinsic component in its production and consequently its processes became more circular. That is, the machinic components invented more co-dependant ways of interacting, and a ‘recurrent causality’ evolved that is characteristic of concretization [46]. This individuation was shared between components, drawing them into concrete machinic process through the evolution of a shared associated milieu. 
Interfacing here might be seen to have incited a phase or register-shift through transduction [47], implicating the external. That is, a complexity beyond simple intensive disruption occurred. While the machine’s modulations were driven by the compossible actions of the bio-technical interfacing, these radical interfacings acted more significantly on the system. They were capable of rearranging both how the potential combinations actualized and of creating completely new milieus. More than modulating transduction, a new machine was produced from the field when the system passed a ‘threshold of [qualitative] intensity’ [48], forcing new flows, with their attendant individuations, to begin. 
With such a shift the machine developed new transductive potentials between the internal and external (the field), a ‘charged grounding’ [49] of the two. That is, the connection of internal spacing and external contrast in dynamic virtual relation created a larger machine ecology [50], a ‘conversation’ between them that gave new dynamism to the event, another scale on which it was self-modulating. Not only the event, but also the field itself had changed. Re:Positioning Fear had changed its nature, not just by actualizing a previously un-actualized potential, but by rewriting the very field of potential available to it, generating emergent difference.