3.1 Parasitic noise 
But in the case of Re:Positioning Fear, a more interesting and radical disruption occurred in the unfolding of this work (which was already primed for playful intervention and evolution). It was in this catalyzing moment when, through parasitic action, a new and more complex machine was produced. Alongside the positioning of their shadows on the façade to activate the hidden text, participants began to synthesize a different work out of the components by engaging specifically in play between their projected silhouettes. Here they utilized the potential to radically alter the size of their shadows to engage creatively with one another. For example, a wheelchair bound participant created a giant image of himself and ran down everyone else [30], while other participants played with puppet mastering smaller shadow bodies and with the making of multi-limbed combinatory beings [31]. 
The ‘parasite’ as described by Michel Serres, is an inherent noise in a system of relations that forces into existence new logic, new combinations, and new orders of exchange [32]. It disrupts as it produces something else (excessive) through its (mis)translation of relations, composing an indeterminacy within any event of relation.
This free shadow play was, I would suggest, a kind of parasitic noise feeding off the energy already flowing through the work to create new paths, expressively [33], and to creatively bifurcate relations. That is, it was an action that both continued to qualitatively express something of the original relation (moving shadows revealing text on the building’s surface), while at the same time producing a new relation through the same initial forms. The contemplative and reflective rhythm of movement in the large-scale text was overlaid with the noise of a quick and teasing play of shadows, creating a tension, a clash of intentions and tonalities: gaps and miscommunications. 
These parasitic actions existed on multiple levels, at different scales; they operated throughout all the transductions of form-force taking place, wherever interfacing occurred, producing excess. For example, as bodies overtly disrupted light to create new imagery, there was also a more subtle disruption of intention, with the artist’s intentions (or perceived potential of the work) interfacing with the participants’ disparate motivations to create a third, more mobile position, composing an indeterminacy within prescribed events of relation.
Parasitic machinics produced not a linear evolution of the work, but rather enabled ‘processes of connectivity and interpenetration...[and] the fostering of specifically transversal connections’ [34]. This parasitic action of interfacing was an agent of difference in that it continued to re-express (transduce) relation. It kept the event always on the point of splitting and moving into multiple new forms, suspending it in unfolding differentiation. Again, this is not unusual within works such as this designed to accommodate interference. Perhaps what is notable here is the degree to which such disruptions overtook the original structures.