In a second time, I have done a series of reading and experimental workshops based on the Euripides’ play Bacchae, with Eleonora Diamenti, Celine Pereira, Ronald Rose Antoinette, Matthew Robin Wright, two students from media art and Annette Manning where we have think together how get on an happening which creating different affective environments with and over pre-existing ones. We used to experiment selected extracts and situations from the play, the room next to the SenseLab in EV Building, at the 10th floor. We could extend interactions between music and video by building a kind of stage, with dance mat, lights, speakers, microphone, camera and laptop. I lead so several workshops where the boundaries between improvisation works, texts materials and video and sound equipment were questioned. The notion of a performance was thought to develop new connections between body language, music, video and text in creating improvisations with the participants. The main idea was to create a new kind of chorus in move, influenced by musical and video atmospheres. These different ambient situations were also in link with the figure of Dionysos, main character half human half divine in the story of the play, who take control for the female chorus. Dionysos used his power on a band of women, the Bacchae, (these woman are possessed until madness) excluded from the city and also on the King of the city to get revenge and finally destroyed the established hierarchy. From this idea of control - an external power that can interfere on others - the participants’ experimentation was to coordinate all these different influences into the composition of a chorus. How a mind and a body can move under external influences and Dionysian wishes? What is a chorus in move? What is a crowd in fury?
Those workshops did not lead finally to a happening, are still in progress.  I’ll be very glad to renew this kind of experience to why not build a performance on it. It was a very rich, enthusiastic and responsive work where I could explore without pressure new relations between performative arts.