Movement Moving
Movement only comes from movement (Spinoza). Movement is sui generis: all and only in and of its own order (its own nexus). Language is likewise sui generis: words only come from other words, in recurring waves, rising and falling from the linguistic any-point of the superposition of sound and speech, and of silence and noise. The same goes for vision, in its own dif- ference, at its dedicated any-point (Paul Klee’s grey point where light and shadow, hue and illumination, enter into a zone of indistinction, and clar- ity of refl	clouds back into a spray of refraction, rebecoming pure optical array).12
Language cannot fully describe movement. Movement does not give itself over to the order of language, any more than it surrenders itself inte- grally to visible form. The orders of experience are incommensurable. There is always a residue, a holding itself in reserve, each in its own element. At the extreme, each order suspends itself in its own reserve potential: in the trace of a last foretracing many a next, in a zone of indistinction. Each order is self-tracing. In the middle, they splay together in their difference. Abso- lutely amodally, in the dynamic concert of nonsensuous similarity. Modally incommensurable, they only relate outside anything in common—most especially outside the logical common of anything that can be attributed a core mental status.
There is no need to surreptitiously appeal to a common realm of implic- itly mental status in order to account for the thought-like aspect of move- ment. Movement “feels like potential” (Forsythe 2011, Nov. 17). Potential is abstract by nature, in the sense of not yet being this or that, here nor there. What is abstract feeling, if not thought? Movement-moving is thinking- feeling: sensation integrally imbued with singular notional force. Poten- tial is not of the if–then. Potential is allied to what-if. The thinking-feeling that is movement-moving is speculative: notional in the sense in which it can be used as a synonym for speculative.
42