(2011)—keeps the process alive and uncertain. With Whole in the Head, weeks of rehearsal were completely unmoored two hours before the open- ing performance when Forsythe decided to change the piece, using only certain sections of what had been rehearsed and reordering them. In keep- ing with his idiosyncratic practice of the what-if, Forsythe then fundamen- tally altered the piece for each of the nine performances to come. This was not just staging. It was a rigorous engagement with “seeing what’s actu- ally in front of [your] eyes,” the what-if of movement activated both on the stage-space of performance and in its co-composition with other per- formances just past, a movement precise with training but still open to regeneration.
The focus in Forsythe’s work on the what-if is everywhere present in his ample arsenal of movement techniques, but it can be felt particularly keenly in the techniques of cueing and aligning. In moving to cue, Forsythe asks the dancers to become sensitive, collectively, to how the dance as a whole moves. You cue to the trace of a movement-moving, to its repeatable tendency, yes, but even more so to the what-if of its emergent evolution. This means that you dance less into the movement-form as it happened in the past than into the speculative fi	of movement’s incipient future. Aligning, then, means tuning to the what-if as it commotionally appears, in movement-transition. You move to the trace of a movement coming to a landing, you align to its capacity for transition, to its complex of potential, already-on-its-way. You align to the what-if of a movement’s futurity—the not-quite of its having come into being. If–then necessarily follows. Gravity acts on the body in movement, moving it to land or fl
in relatively habitual ways. But movement-moving has been opened up by the what-if to its own variation—to new collective sprays, new combi- nations, new “fl      matches,” as the company calls them.
“Synching is not what’s important, in the sense of matching already known timing,” Forsythe explains (2011, Nov. 8). What’s important to the what-if of cueing and aligning is how position itself becomes movement. “Go slower, be in the other’s past (right before they catch up to you), then move past them to their future—look for the moment—aim at it rather than going directly to it [. . .] then shift” (Forsythe 2011, Nov. 8). Time-shift. You don’t always move at extreme speed, you vary the rhythm. Remember the rhythmic milieu.
What-if is the “actually seeing what’s in front of you” of movement’s
45