Woolf and the dalai lama are walking down the beach, and there’s something shining in the sand, and the dalai lama, he bends down he bends and picks it up. it’s a mirror. a little mirror. a pocket mirror. and he looks into the mirror, and he says, “hey, i know this person!” and virginia Woolf says, “give me that mirror.” and so she looks into the mirror, and she says, “Well, of course you know this person, silly. that’s me! that’s you, one hundred years from now!” one hundred years from now.
When Forsythe speaks of not wanting to miss seeing “what’s actually in front of my eyes,” it seems that he is referring to vision in the standard sense. Look in the mirror and see what’s there, right in front of you. He wants to see what is happening, and to choreograph with the present in the mode of the just-like-that. No ideas in advance—let the process show you its own evolution. “Don’t be afraid to let things reveal themselves,” Forsythe tells his dancers. “Sometimes it [what the work’s about] doesn’t come until the end” (Corbin 2012). See it for what it is, in the middling of its coming to be. The problem is, the movement is aligning to futurity, its refl	askance. One hundred years from now: that’s me, silly! How can he or the dancers work with “what’s actually in front of my eyes” when it is landing onto the present from the unknowability of the future? How can they work with the mirror when the mirror at once refl  me and you, one, two, one-two in the uncertain fi  of vision that includes the now and the one hundred years from now? What does it mean to “really see” in the mode of the speculative?
Movement generation techniques in the Forsythe Company are enliv- ened by a paradox of double vision. To be in the present in its unfolding is to be in the future-fl of a nonlinear time-match. The sensorimotor is always in commotion with the motional-relational, in disjunctive synthe- sis. The body, articulating in the present the complexity of dance-form, is always also being asked to match-fl to a welling future movement. The sensorimotor is alive in the taking-form, led by the motional relational, poised at the limit where now and next are co-composing.
Forsythe Company dancer Dana Caspersen explains: “I experience two kinds of vision at once. The space around [is] alive with potential, invisi- ble forms, and lines of movement. I am continually ambushed, caught up, in this welter of doubled vision” (2011, 97). This superposition of actively engaging with the just-now—just like that—of the complexity of the
47