present presenting itself, is superposed with the futurity of how the what- will-come has already left its trace on the movement-welling.
Forsythe describes this technique as having a vision (2003a; Manning 2013, 86). Having a vision, in the moving, means moving beyond this body, this form, toward the unfolding of how movement will be affected by the middling, which will fl  into it from the future. A dizzying task, but one that cleaves movement from its habitual sensorimotor cues and alignments, inviting it to invent with a bodying. Two versions of cueing and aligning are co-active here, in the fi of double vision. There is the habitual sensorimotor organization of the body in its causal fl  a for- ward step cueing to gravity, aligning to the slope of the fl  and the Forsythe Company’s technique of cueing to movement-moving in a non- local fi of co-action and collective aligning in counterpoint to the fi s patterned interplay.16
Virginia Woolf’s Mrs Dalloway also plays with vision, tuning it toward the visionary. It was this aspect of the text that most excited the For- sythe Company in the creation of Woolf Phrase (Forsythe 2003a). Working through the text, Forsythe speaks of having the insight that a technique could be invented to make dancing visionary. The dancers could technically become visionary. The technique that he originally developed, and that was enhanced through the making of the piece, “had to do with identically remembering another person’s variation, or sprays, and building a kind of architecture of movement around it.” The caveat: “you had to keep seeing this other person dancing in order to perform it, so it was a way of having a vision” (Forsythe 2003a). A collective vision.
This evolved into two techniques for becoming visionary, both of which were set in place for the making of Woolf Phrase. The fi “telescoping,” involves actively working with the gaze. “We tried to focus our gaze, if looking at an arm movement, on the line proposed by the movement. The body follows the gaze to where the movement begins, turns around this point, and fi	turns the gaze in another direction,” Forsythe dancer Prue Lang explains (2004, 126). First, you follow the line of movement with your gaze. And then, still looking, you visualize where the line can go and move into it. You turn around that point, looking both for what you can see and for what you can’t see. Double the vision. Then turn the gaze in another direction, in a splay of focus. Make the unseen felt, bring it into appearance through movement. The aim is not to replicate a movement,
48