or even to follow a movement, but to continue it by other means. Acti- vate the fi	by pulling the line of movement into a new direction. Twist. “Metascoping,” the more amodal version of the two techniques, works
by feeling-seeing the time of movement. “We had to react to the movement of another body by allowing the gaze to move toward, away or around lines of movement” (Lang 2004, 126). You follow the movement as it unfolds, at the same time exceeding its arc, away and around, entering into its future. Time bends space: this is what it means to be visionary. Differ- entials of speed and intensity are created. “When the movement reaches a certain speed, these short dialogues become increasingly reactive and remind us of swarming bees” (Lang 2004, 126). Commotion. Moving into movement’s incipient future, following its lines of intensity, means invent- ing the path movement can take in the untimeliness of its future-forming. Space-time of movement-moving, as generative movement fi
The sensorimotor organization of the body in its sequential form- following is subverted by the force of the visionary. To generate a move- ment, the dancer must move beyond the form of what was and learn how to “sense motion traces.” This opens up movement to its otherness, sim- ilarly to the way Proust talks about the necessity of opening language to “a kind of foreign language within language, which is neither another language nor a rediscovered patois, but a becoming-other of language, a minoritization of this major language, a delirium that carries it off, a witch’s line that escapes the dominant system” (Deleuze 1997, 5).
Double vision, in the end, is less about vision than it is about pro- prioception. To “visualize” a movement is to “see” it proprioceptively: in body-vision.17 To move into the futurity of movement-moving is to have a body-vision in the dancing. It is to move with the future in its unfold- ing, to be moving in the very creation of space-times of experience, to be caught up, just like that, in the simultaneity of the wake of movement per- ishing as it meets the welling of its futurity, dancing at the nexus of expe- rience infolding.
Dance that thought around.