rhythmic milieu. What-if: a curve is thrown that cannot be predicted in its particulars, precisely because it has been relationally imbued with futurity, fi	itself into novel form.
What must language do to become-visionary? What are its techniques for opening language to the foreignness, as Proust says, of its becoming- other? In Virginia Woolf, the “as if” plays this role, folding as it does the present into its double: “She began to go slowly upstairs, with her hand on the bannisters, as if she had left a party, where now this friend now that had fl	back her face, her voice [that’s me, silly!]; had shut the door and gone out and stood alone, a single fi       against the appalling night, or rather, to be accurate, against the stare of this matter-of-fact June morn- ing” (Woolf 1992, 33). As-if, the holding pattern of a difference in time, time looped onto itself toward the impossibility of getting the story straight once and for all. Not just “it could have been this way,” but “it was this way, and that way as well, at the same time”: disjunctive synthesis, just like that. As- if—“straight” in the middle.
As-if, he says. as if things were just this bright, or . . . as if things were just that loud, or twisting at the hips this fast gesturing toward her that far. as if there was just this one distance, this one, marking a short distance between his hands separation. one sep- aration, one, two. one. two. one, one-two tapping the mic one- two, one-two.
As-if, Virginia Woolf writes, “as if this beauty, this scent, this colour [. . .] were a wave which she let fl over her and surmount that hatred, that monster, surmount it all”; “as if one will worked legs and arms uni- formly, and life, with its varieties, its irreticences, had been laid under a pavement of monuments and wreaths and drugged into a stiff yet staring corpse by discipline” (Woolf 1992, 14). Seventy-fi times as if in Mrs Dal- loway, each time touching on the impossibility of the simple coupling of this and now. As-if, a rhythmic suspension that holds the presenting of the present to itself in itself, that denies this image its simplicity of unfolding, creating a knot in the discursivity of language. As-if: a mode that moves language to its narrative limit, pushing language to say not how if and then follow, but how “if” becomes its own limit, a transversal limit that cuts across the if–then.
When the Forsythe Company decided to work with Mrs Dalloway, the focus, once again, was not on retelling her story, but on “moving around the rhythm of Woolf’s language” (Sulcas 2001). How to move into the
50