text’s visionary force? How to fold movement into the as-if of Mrs Dallo- way’s speculative language? How to create techniques that were capable not of responding to language, or illustrating language, but of moving in counterpoint with language? Dog-like, seagull-like, not in the realm of rep- resentation, but in the elemental realm of formative feeling-tone. “Richard and I worked to dehumanize our bodies by giving them elemental quali- ties (like the ocean) or animal qualities (like a bird, a dog, or bees). Move- ment thus becomes entangled with sound or nature: circling and mewling, barking and jumping, the sound of waves surging” (Lang 2004, 128). Cir- cling, jumping, surging: not forms but activation contours. As-if: in non- sensuous similarity.
Forsythe defi counterpoint as “a fi of action in which the inter- mittent and irregular coincidence of attributes between organizational elements produces an ordered interplay.”18 Counterpoint of movement and language in Woolf Phrase is best understood as a coinciding of both at their limit, in the relational any-point of the motional and the notional. Here, the what-if of movement and the as-if of language co-compose. Together they unsettle the linearity of time in the tense of the if–then. In the speaking and in the moving, working in disjunctive synthesis, two speculative time signatures interrupt one another. What-if asks the dancer to “anticipate the other dancer’s future.” In this movement proposition, the dancer is being asked to shift time, to make time in the tense of the future-felt. As-if asks the reader to place in an uneasy holding pattern more than this one image, more than this one narrative line.
as if there was just this  one. Language interrupts the dancers who, a moment ago, were moving together, he drawing circles around her seagull-like movements in a contortion that seems to meet her move- ment halfway, never touching, always sidling. As if there was just this one, she, standing to his left, now immobilized as though holding her breath. Immobilized in a movement alive in its stillness, a lingering suspension. As-if this were the only way of moving the text, of speaking the dance. As- if it had to be language or movement. As-if the relational didn’t already hold them together in disjunction, just this way. Superposed, what-if and as-if, moving together in their difference. Think the superposition as a fl	felt as rhythm. Rhythm as the expression of movement and language coming together.
“The perception of similarity,” Walter Benjamin writes, “is in every case bound to a fl	up. It fl    past, can possibly be won again, but cannot
51