really be held fast as can other perceptions” (2004, 695). The coinciding of the as-if and the what-if produces a fl of similarity. Just like this. Simi- larity at the fl	is nonsensuous because it is thought-felt at the any- point limit of expression where both movement and language become foreign to their general functioning in “a delirium that carries [them] off, a witch’s line that escapes the dominant system.” Nonsensuous similarity: directly thought-felt in the register of the visionary.
Nonsensuous perception comes together with sensuous perception at all stages of Woolf Phrase. We sit and watch the work in its unfolding, alive to the minute changes in tempo, the rise and fall of voice, the undulat- ing of the wall of sound. We also perceive, nonsensuously, the edgings into co-composition of rhythm-becoming-language, of rhythm-becoming- movement. The paradox of disjunctive synthesis makes itself felt at each stage of the commotion: language and movement are not one, and yet, at their limit, they fl      up in a oneness of similarity. As-if.
Woolf Phrase: an ordered interplay that invents relationally at the limit of the notional and the motional. Woolf Phrase: a recurrence in lingering suspension of a rhythm in the making. The piece, Forsythe says, is always changing, ever generating variations on itself: no two nights quite identi- cal, but . . . somehow . . . yet . . . quite the same.
When the notional meets the motional, it’s not that we no longer under- stand the words. It’s not even that we don’t ally the words to the move- ment. It’s that the words, in the mode of the as-if, contort to the movement they activate. It’s that language, when in counterpoint with movement at the limit, tweaks into a rhythm with movement. At this any-point, lan- guage, like movement, proposes itself as “an organ for listening.” We hear it sounding, its counterpoint with movement creating a joint rhythmic milieu. While we can differentiate the words from Willems’s acoustic envi- ronment, while we know what is language and what is movement and what is sound—Paaf!—we are no longer certain where expression begins and ends. Notionally, we have “no idea.” Knowing and unknowing co- compose, dancing thought around.
And so we are left not with a story about a dog—he wags his leg—or about a sparrow—her movement-mewls—or about a woman and the Dalai Lama seeing each other cross-eyed—but with a dance that moves language in the middle. Just like that.
52