reset
Midway through the piece, a shift occurs. The movement is cut by touch, touch taking on the role of the all of a sudden, resetting movement in the making.
The touch cues the return of the same moment, with a difference. and now the same moment, supposedly without happiness. As-if. He takes her hand. still no happiness.
stricken once.
He pulls her back, away from the microphone, away from language, his movement folding into hers, the gesture of touch leading her into the vortex of a commotion increasingly turned in on itself, their movements swarming, future-forming.
She moves back to the microphone, his body still connected to hers, his balance passing through an arabesque. She: stricken twice. An ara- besque, spiraling already into a circling, his body folding through her back- ward movement. She, reaching toward him. Hands held, a sense of push and pull. A suspended connection, wary of the measure of the touch, it seems. For while the movement looks to proceed by cause and effect, in fact what is active is a mobile relational interval—a co-constitutive suspen- sion of movement in the moving. Touch strikes. It cuts into the relational interval. It does not stop movement so much as set it in motion, again, differently. It reorganizes, reorients, pulling movement-moving into knife- edge precision. A moment of clarity. Stricken.
The moment of clarity appears from the wash of movement-moving. The clarity was of course always already there, active in the midst, if eclipsed by the velocity, the agility, of the movement-moving. Clarity is a signal for the viewer. Look again, it says. Think-feel the difference. Don’t forget: the touch comes between the moving and the speaking, recalibrating not only the motional but also the notional. Think touch as that which acts on the fl     to pull from it a clearing of relation.
Touch resets relational movement not by bringing it to rest in this or that human body, but by activating a momentary pause in the frenzy that reorients the fi	as a whole.19 Yes, he lays his hand on her shoulder. Yes, she stills. But really what is happening is less about him, or about her, or about them touching. It is about giving us a window into the wider fi giving us pause to encounter, with them, the counterpoint of movement and language in a fi	of experience continuously folding back on itself.