No linear sequencing here: touch as the reset button for a rebeginning, a spiraling back.
ok, we’re back.
The touching reset of relational movement creates a hiatus in movement- moving. This invites us to see dance moving not into form, but into the sprays, the traces, through which form spreads. Sprays: the folding through of movement becoming rhythmic milieu. Sprays: the affective surplus of the sensorimotor, the curve that exceeds this habitual stance, the moving at the point of infl	that tunes toward a collective individuation not only of the dancers, but of the whole fi of activation, the fi that includes, at its limit, the folds of Mrs Dalloway as well as every movement proposition that went into each of the choreographed sequences. Every- thing is there in abeyance, suspended in each movement, lingering in each utterance. But what makes the work work is not the everything, but the overfl	singularity of how this point of infl	tunes to this rhythmic fold at any-point, in the counterpoint of the notional and the motional. Stricken. Reset: from lingering to just like that.
stricken thrice. Paaf! Willems’s suddenly amplifi	sound wall fi the moment. Paaf! Same moment again, without the sound.
Touch resets the any-point of movement. By calling attention to the any-point of movement, touch makes visible the incommensurability of the two, one, two, one-two. Watch them move: note how the touch acti- vates a slowing, an intensive attending, not only to that through which relational movement moves, but to the shape of the work as a moving whole, to the shape of its sidling to language and contorting to move- ment. Watch how touch acts on movement, stilling its delirium. But note also how its stalling of movement works to make apparent what, follow- ing Proust, we might call movement’s witch’s line, its capacity to upset the dominant code that seeks only to generalize experience. The touch is unnerving—it undoes expectation, refusing to connect the two in an easy intimacy. Touch: giving the viewer, the dancer, the bearings from whence to start again, differently, in the middle. For what moves is not one dancer connecting with another. What moves is a moving in the middling, a col- lective moving-with that connects to movement’s visionary potential, in a nexus with language.
We start out with a process and try to collapse it.
In the collapse, the witch’s line of the dance is reactivated. The any- point beckons. We watch, the movement dizzying in its speed. No, start
55