somehow, circling
all of a sudden, you remember where you are. Pause. good-bye. ok, we’re back.
Woolf Phrase’s visionary quality creates a suspension, a lingering in the future-forming moment. She, movement-mewling. He, again sitting toward the edge, watching her, waiting. This holding pattern, cut by touch, reset—PAAF!—circles the piece around itself, somehow. Two velocities are continuously at work, two modes in attention, two levels—language and movement—in counterpoint. This doubling keeps the piece active, alive at the limit of what movement and language, in their differential, are capa- ble of. One register alone, if given dominance, would dampen the force of what is at work here. We might look for Meaning instead of heeding the call to attention to movement-moving. We might catch ourselves seeing Mrs Dalloway told, in movement. Illustration, representation redux. But this is not what is happening. A thirdness is coming into play, in the elemen- tal force of the two, one-two, coming together. This thirdness contracted, always, through the creative disjunction of the match-fl      and its reset.
What do language and movement do, at this limit where they refract into thirdness? They remake themselves at the edge of time, where time itself is at the limit of its spiraling. Time folds. in. Ever. Widening. Cir- cles. Life and death in co-composition, in the shape of a wave cresting. stricken.  leaden.  Circles.
fear no more, says the heart. Willems’s sound acute, the move- ment frenzied, she at the microphone. fear. no. More. He, on the ground, moving around her, the intense sound crescendoing in a semblance of the PAAF!, resetting the fi  of movement and language. She, still standing at the mic, her breath sounding, in and out, the effort of her words, of her movement, palpable. He, crouched, watching her from a distance.
She: fear no more, says the heart. Breath: in, out, in, out. Com- mitting its burden to some sea. In, out, in, out. and with a final twist. Twist. she bowed her head. very politely. In, out, in, out. she went barely audible paaf. A quiet darkening. she. had gone. She, had gone. She, the face in the mirror—that’s me! that’s you!—one hundred
56