years from now, death folding into life, life folding forward. She, had gone. She, voice of no age, no sex—elemental, here and gone, of the wave. Overtaking and receding. Just like that. Somehow.
Across the co-composition of just like that and somehow, across the threshold of death and its lingering at the edges of life, the refrain returns: as if there was just this one. As-if, as if two could make one. But what if two made three? What-if the two, the one-two of language and move- ment were reset, just this way, into an inexpressible thirdness? What if just like that and somehow were the cues through which the piece aligned itself, again and again, to the force of its doubling? What if just like that and somehow were the terms of the work’s limit, the mark of how the work must continuously move through the absolute difference of a vertiginous lingering in expression?
Somehow, a likeness. Somehow, as if two times, two events, this and its likeness, could linger in cohabitation, as-if. Just like that, the fl	of nonsensuous similarity, the cut into likeness that brings time’s overfl into the moment, this moment. But what a strange moment, this specious present, a moment qualifi	not by its being-present but by its spread, by the span of time it includes, the past and future rolling into it. A visionary moment, a futurity in the making.
This is what language and movement can do in co-composition. They can take the lingering of the somehow and, with touch, reset it toward the just like that such that suddenly, the contorting of time is acutely felt across expression in the making. Woolf Phrase’s proposition: to allow both move- ment and language, at their counterpoint, to create a movement of thought that moves time differentially, that motions across speeds and slownesses, that sidles toward the disjunction of differential tendencies even while composing across their nonsensuous similarity.
Co-composition, suspended in the force of a recurrence.
The piece comes to an end. He, at the microphone. She, standing back, movement-mewling.
and as they looked, the whole world became perfectly silent. Pause. and a flock of gulls crossed the sky, first one gull leading, then another. Pause. and in this silence, in this purity, in this pallor, bells struck eleven times, their sound floating up there among the gulls.
Thirteen seconds of silence. He, standing at the microphone, looking forward but gesturing back in her direction. She, behind him, completely
57