This reinaugural light interaction proceeds unseen into the forming painting. It is not even seen at this stage by the painter, other than as a passing fl that dazzles perception rather than enabling it. The painter herself does not have the axis. The reinaugural gesture of fl	the switch dispossesses her of her painterly will. Her aesthetic choice has also been consigned to the machine. Authorial volition, no less than spectatorial per- ception, is challenged by an anonymous light suspending both the origin and the destination of the painting process. A light that is not cast on the image to illuminate it, but actively casts the image, from within the pro- cess of its formation. An activity of light that rebegins the image, imma- nent to its formative process.
The work of Ettinger’s evolving painting process will be to cast this machinic-material dynamic of image-forming light back into a perceptual dynamic—still off the axes of spectatorial perception and authorial voli- tion, on an axis of light, immanent to the image-forming process. The artist characterizes that axis as “spiritual,” suggesting that a new meaning would have to be imagined for that word, independent of its religious connota- tions.3 For her painting process has no more to do with “enlightenment” than with illumination. When the found images move into the subsequent stages of the image-forming process, the rebeginning play of light between toner and drum continues in a form-fi	interplay between color and white. The image emerging from the photocopier is now consigned to brushwork. Colors cloud, drifting as they shift. Whites come and go, into hue and out. Their movement is not governed by any direct application of principles of composition. It continues to emerge, in a manner that can still be called machinic—if that word can be used for a form-coming that occurs in a suspension of authorial will and spectatorial perception, in relation to an outside of those axes, immanent to the painting process.