recedes from them. The standing out and receding back of white does not sandwich the trace-forms between two layers. It veins through them. They are suspended in the movement of white’s foregrounding backgrounding itself. The trace-forms are suspended in this movement. They shiver with it, it mists them. They vibrate in the activity of white’s self-relating, a cease- less movement going nowhere else.
White movement’s self-relating is the space of the trace-forms’ appear- ance, unsettled into, or fallen out of, any three-dimensional spatial matrix capable of stably containing them. They are not in the vibration. They are of it. It is through them. They are beings of the vibration.
“Forces entering the fi of painting,” Ettinger says, “are translated as vibrations” (2010).
“How could I add a form to that? I’m not there yet” (Ettinger 2010).
The forms, faces and fi	are no longer there, except as vibratory traces of a process moving through them.
“In painting,” Ettinger says, “there is a lot of treating what is not going to be there any more.” But “no more is not the end of it.” No more is where “I” fi    myself, not yet—again. Still painting, across series that may end but never come to a defi	close. “Sometimes two paintings from dif- ferent series based on the same image call to each other, and something that happens in the new one will demand a change in an old one. This was the case with No Title Yet, No. 3 and Eurydice, No. 23” (Ettinger 2010).
The painting process opens itself to formative forces entering its fi and moving across the paintings and their seriations, in both directions. Something happens. Accidents happen, fi	an individual canvas like No Title Yet, No. 3 with a vibratory self-relating. The fore-to-back two-way movement-through detains in that individual painting, for a luminous moment (telling nothing of day), the moving back and forth across paint- ings and series of forms tracing themselves in a rhythm of appearing and disappearing.4 One painting can call another actively back into the paint- ing process because each detains the movement of the whole in itself. The paintings-series, severally as a whole, resonate in each individual painting. The individual painting vibrates with the whole of the series, whose move- ment it holds in its self (relating).
“It’s all about intensity” (Ettinger 2010). Intensity: resonating in (across vibrations).
“It’s not about perception. It’s about connecting” (Ettinger 2010). It is with this intensity of connecting-in, across, that the artist fi
63