passage, the constant cup of iced coffee, Johann Sebastian Bach’s Matthaus Passion or, in other moods, Keren Ann, Shalom Hanoch, Radiohead. In the adjacent dining room, in the kitchen, certain guests (more friends) are invited to participate, to modulate the environment. “I need my interces- sors to express myself, and they could never express themselves without me: we are always many at work, even when it’s not obvious” (Deleuze 1995: 125). The intercessor is a complex singularity that activates a process, a force that acts as a differential within an ongoing movement of thought. The intercessor: the felt force that activates the threshold between think- ing and feeling.
Thought gathers in the work. It is the event of the work’s unfolding. Not into language, but in painting, on a canvas that seeks to activate a new way of seeing, a new effort at participation. The intercessor pro- pels thought, gives it a place to land, across works. St. John the Baptist’s landing spreads thought across Ettinger’s canvas, making felt an unset- tling contiguity: “Distance—the face of these lines” (Ettinger 2010). Lines, fi
Ettinger’s work brushes against the gaze without relying upon it. The friend cannot be represented. The Monet lies open, not to be looked at, but to be thought-felt. A kind of “involuntariness in the seeing” (Ettinger 2010). “Painting is not the image; painting is not the visual” (Ettinger 1993, 72).
The seeing happens almost by accident, spiriting across tremulous color lines—traces—that are less visual than vibrational: lines fi
Vibrations are of time more than in time: they make time as they take it, moving the image toward what cannot quite be seen in the seeing. The intercessor, the friend, activates these vibratory tendencies, creating an intensive passage between past and future outsides, the canvas a complex polyphony.
The outside does not exist as such. It participates, it activates. It is always and only relational. Intensive interval contributive to an event in-forming, the outside captivates a process. It makes felt the virtual share of the actu- ally perceived. It is an ally, a germ of unease, a friendly if troubling inter- loper that co-inhabits all tendings toward form, an essentially “unformed element of forces” (Deleuze 1988: 43).
The outside invites thought to linger in the elasticity of a taking- form: thought not as already-constituted but as a force for creative thinking-feeling.
66