if it could Be said, it Would not have to Be Painted
The friend is an uncanny presence. Non-I, more-than human: the friend is always a new species, created for just this or that processual occasion. The fi     of creation is not populated by subjects predefi      The event of the work’s contiguities, the event of the work’s excess of form or fi	this is the subject. Today, the subject may take the form of a line, a line that is never quite straight, never quite horizontal, that stretches across this and that canvas, that moves with an outside that propels it, tuning to light. Tomorrow, the subject may come of an aria that activates a new mobility in the line. The subject evolves, and with it a dynamic per- ceptual fi    This fi    is replete with relational tendencies, thoughts in the feeling. It is replete with itself.
Ettinger paints the fi  but is also painted by it. “I allow [the paint- ings] to paint me” (Ettinger 2010). In this transformation, the artist herself is transformed. She is eye, hand, body, but she is also movement, tendency, thought, feeling. She moves-with the transformation, at pains to fi an unspoken language—a language of traces, of vibrations and resonances—to articulate what cannot quite be seen, what remains, always, to some extent not only ineffable, but essentially imperceptible.
If it could be said, it would not have to be painted. For Bracha Ettinger is also a writer.
A co-poiesis is occurring here. Painter painted painting. Field fi
fi	The intercessor thresholding, differentializing. An ephemeral com- munity at work not-yet-again, a coming community that attends to the fact that the outside is a threshold. “Not another space that resides beyond a determinate space [but . . .] the passage, the exteriority that gives it access—in a word [. . .] its face” (Agamben 1993, 68).
The act of painting, the painting’s act, creates an imperceptible face, a spectral opening, an outside that trembles from within, appearing in the disappearance of a process that for more than twenty years has privileged this uncanny threshold.
Face as co-constitutive yawning abyss that activates and populates, that faces and defaces, that folds and expresses, making the outside felt, face as that unfi that never quite comes face-to-face, its facing a continuous appearance-disappearance across series.6
Coming-in.
The face exceeds the I, exceeds the human relation. As friend, the face