distance in Proximity
An unsettling of what might otherwise demand to be seen, the friend cre- ates an uneasy disturbance in the fi   The friend is only an ally insofar as it contributes to a thinking-feeling tremulously poised on the edge of what cannot quite be thought, felt, said, or painted. The intercessor car- ries the power of the false: a noncorrespondence between the emergent act and its expected expression that keeps the act in nonresemblance to itself. “These powers of the false that will produce truth” (Deleuze 1995, 126), this is what the intercessors are.
The intercessor is a tending-forth, a force of expression without peer. It comes from the outside, attracted by conditions for its shaping. Coming in, it shifts the work toward its own uneasy outside. This outside is inten- sive, tightly wound in its interloping, in the interweaving of elastic rela- tions with all else incipiently in-act.
Monet as such—as painter, as impressionist, as “artist” predefi	is not the friend. His greening is the intercessor. Greening is the force that extends beyond Monet into a perceptual tendency—a violeting, per- haps—as it enters Ettinger’s work. It is not so much that the trees in Mon- et’s Water Lily Pond are “green” or that faces in Ettinger come out “violet.” The green trees, the violet faces, activating a tendency in the work toward a more-than of color, an unseen vibrational light. Toward a crystalline state. We see the canvas as though through a crystal, clouding, coloring. We see not color as such but resonances, intervals, cuttings-in. We see greening, beyond representation. Less in color or as line, than as a formative force- effect that emerges when the process takes over, a precarious balancing between what is seen, thought, and felt. Greening, violeting as the force for activation that creates a bridge between two works participating in a shared outside.
Return to Monet’s Water Lily Pond. Go beyond the trees and the water lilies and see what even the painting itself cannot quite conceive. Feel- see its taking-time across generations. Feel-see how its color, white, and
69