may morph. Facial elements may invade the fi as in Autistwork No. 1, where an arm and shoulder sprout the appearance of an eye. It is less that the faces and fi	are painted than that they reemerge, of themselves, from the painting process.
“Sometimes two paintings from different series based on the same image call to each other” (Ettinger 2010). The artist may then move from one painting to another, brushstroking the painting “in relation to part of the last painting that was set aside to move to the present one” (Ettinger 2010). This is done without direct visual reference. Not by gaze. It is not the look that transfers the face from one painting to another.7 The painting’s fi	are allowed to resonate in each other, through the material opera- tions of the painting process to which they mutually, serially belong. The fi	transfer themselves, in the process. This is not the artist’s volition. “The same face may appear,” under transformation, “in different parts of different paintings. The faces are transconnected. Figures get lost, then are refound in a different place” (Ettinger 2010).
A face from outside the process may cut into the thread of transcon- nection, “friending” the process. The face of da Vinci’s St. John the Baptist, unlooked upon in an open book beside the easel, suddenly “comes out from a displaced Eurydice face” (Ettinger 2010). The paintings/series open onto their outside. Through the same operations by which they form an intensive relational whole of their own in their openness to each other, they take their outside in, opening the whole to the world at large. It is not the form of the outside face or fi that enters the painting. What enters is its friendly, troubling “vibration,” joining a different resonant fi  to new effect, from an effectively contiguous distance, with ingres- sive formative force.
None of this, the artist says, is a matter of choice. She exercises her will- power “mainly at the beginning, in the choice of which image to use” (Ettinger 2010). Her persistence, her discipline, is to surrender to the paint- ing process the decision as to when something will emerge, and what. “Color,” she specifi	“is not part of the beginning decision . . . The lines and the colors come together” in the relay from xerography to brushstrok- ing. In each successive painting and series, she simply “starts with the same color as the last, until the painting asks for another color” (Ettinger 2010).
The coloration evolves across the series. In Autistwork, No. 1, the color is muted. There is vibratory movement but it is localized, tightly wound