between the dark of the fi		contours and a fuzziness clouding them. Movement still. Faces, fi	appear disappearing. Their forms fl between the foreground and the background. Since the movement comes of an interplay between dark and light, contour and blurring, the fi	of appearing-disappearing remains tied to form, if only residually (trace-form). As the Autistwork series evolves (1993–94), paintings begin to ask for color. From the clouding comes blue, then red. The conditions for a violeting. A spectrum of color, a palette, is phasing in. Its coming starts moving the series away from the interplay between dark and light, as attached to con- tour and blurring, toward color and clouding.
The Eurydice series starts in the same palette. The colors thicken. The emergent figural field-effects become less  formed,  more  vibratory. The vibration no longer comes from the fi vacillating between the foreground and the background. It comes from color vibrating with itself, foregrounding-backgrounding itself across the darkness that once was con- tour but is no more. It doesn’t end there. Clouds of white start to emerge, on their own account, shivering, released from any tie to fuzziness of con- tour. In this series, the movement of the painting spreads across the can- vas. Intensive movement over distances.
Then something happens again. The photocopier is replaced by the dig- ital scanner. Scanography takes over from xerography. The painting pro- cess moves scanographically into the No Title Yet series. No Title Yet Nos. 1–3 rebegin the painting process from scans of Eurydice No. 23. The scanner is set so “the fi	aspect does not transfer to the scan” (Ettinger 2010). Nor does the color transfer. “The color in the scans is reduced to greys and whites”: to cloudiness and white (not black and white, or dark ver- sus light). Cloudiness and white: degrees of light. Whiteness self-relating. What traces of faces and fi		will emerge come from this interplay of light. Few recognizable fi	appear any longer. It is fi    that the series has no title. Face becoming imperceptible: no name. No title—yet. “I” am all the more not-there-yet. All the more no-more, and yet: to come. By No Title Yet No. 3—Eurydice, the interplay of white with itself predominates. This concentrates the movement without reducing its intensive spread. The whole canvas vibrates white. The movement becomes pulsing. The pulsing takes into itself the painting’s distances, enveloping them in its own movement in place, in an all-over vibratory immediacy. Distance in immediate proximity.
77