The Adventures of White
The status of white in Johann Wolfgang von Goethe’s color theory closely parallels its relational operation across Ettinger’s painting series. Goethe defi  white as “the fortuitously opaque fl   of a pure transparency” (1970, §495, 204).8 Translucid matter; or, pure light. “Light no longer has to do with darkness, but with the transparent, the translucid, and the white” (Deleuze 1986, 93).
The color fi for Goethe, emerges as an accident befalling transpar- ency: it is a fortuitous becoming, emerging by degrees in a process of con- tinuing variation. “Between transparency and the opacity of white there exists an infi number of degrees of cloudiness” (Deleuze 1986, 93). The oppositions between light and dark, white and black, and even illumina- tion and hue, which in traditional color theory are taken to prestructure the fi of vision, by this account emerge processually from a formative accident of transparency: its departing from itself in a fl into its own cloudying. Transparency thickens, clouding. The clouding “accumulates.” The accumulating attains white as its “extreme degree” (Goethe 1970, §146– 47, 60–61; §494, 204).
For Goethe, the color fi  is a qualitative continuum composed of an infi of variations, contingently unfolding. A continuum of qualitative variation is best designated by its extreme degree, because it is the extreme degree as pole of attraction that orients the moving continuously through. The continuum of vision is the continuity of white’s tending toward its own emergence from transparency. Transparency is the degree zero of vision: pure visibility, itself unseeable, containing nothing but the power of the continuum opaquely departing from it. The entire continuum can be seen, from the perspective of its last degree of white, as the continuum of white: the continuum of white’s diverse fl	of opacity self-relating, yielding fortuitous degrees of cloudiness in endless variation, across differ- ent unfolding series.
Color itself is an emergence falling on this continuum. For Goethe, color does not emerge from darkness when light is cast upon a space to illuminate its contents. Color emerges from colored shadow: from a cer- tain clouded self-relating of light. “Color itself . . . is lumen opacatum [opac- ifi light]” (Goethe 1970, §69, 31). “For Goethe, all colors are shadows” (Sorensen 2008, 161).9
Space itself does not preexist as the container for contents awaiting
78