its multiple rebeginnings coming to form, is enveloped in all immediacy: distance in immediate proximity.
It is in this immediate distance in proximity that the “spirit” of the paintings/series makes itself felt.
There is a transparency moving through the process that is not reducible to the translucidity of a substance, such as the glass of the platen. Neither is it reducible to the materiality of light, as pure visibility, giving to vision, itself unseeable. There is a nonsensuous transparency that is one with the thinking-feeling of the intensive relational whole of the painting process: “A light that never was, on land or sea” (Whitehead 1967b, 87). Virtual light. What is transparent in the painting process as an intensive relational whole is one painting’s, a whole series’, a given face’s, direct relation to another, and to one another, in immediate distance in proximity. One resonates in the other without detouring along the axis of either specta- torship or authorial intention. Each vibrates with the whole of the others, without a mediating look between them. No decision comes between the painting process and its perpetual rebeginnings’ continuing. The forma- tive force of the painting process rearises, open-wholly, with each begin- ning. No mediation—intercession. All distance pulsing in the dynamic transparency of an immediate formative proximity. Becoming-crystalline
of the painting process.
What is thought in each painting, and across the series, is “the power to rebegin at every instant, to self-rebegin, and thus to self-confi in a way that puts everything at stake again every time” (Deleuze 1986, 115). This power to rebegin is “the consciousness of choice as steadfast spiritual determination” (Deleuze 1986, 115). What chooses? Not I, no more—not yet. Each and all chooses, every time, in the retracing-itself of an open pro- cessual whole always still in the durational making. Anti-expressionism: “The subjectivity is never ours, it is time itself, that is, the soul or the spirit, the virtual” (Deleuze 1989, 82–83).
The power of the relational whole to rebegin constitutes a “spiritual space where what we choose is no longer distinguishable from the choice” (Deleuze 1986, 115). This is not a physical space, a space that materially contains. It is a relationally reopening space, “identical to the power of the spirit” (Deleuze 1986, 117).
Through the exercise of its power to choose itself, the painting pro- cess becomes a formative force of thought. The painting process is its own thinking-feeling subject, moving choosily across material operations,
80