choosing steadfastly in the moving, while remaining fortuitously, openly, relationally irreducible to them. It moves from painting to painting, machine to machine, through series, from form to trace, through phases of color, to come out into its own, in clouds of painting-thinking thicken- ing the transparency of the spiritual space of the open whole into a move- ment of white self-relating.
The interplay between transparency and white that traverses the entire process is the thinking that is painting. The color-phases that emerge across the movement of this thinking-itself of painting are what gives it feeling, and reimparts it to perception. Colors: thickenings in the interplay of light, between transparency and white opacity, absorbing the vicissitudes of the thinking process, radiating the feeling of it, registered in degrees of cold and warmth.
If white is painting-thinking coming out into its own, the coloring of the process “is affect itself” (Deleuze 1986, 118). “Pure virtuality doubling as the affecting and the affected, ‘self-affection’ as the defi	of time” (Deleuze 1989, 83; translation modifi      Feeling felt, thought feeling.
Color is thinking’s affective accompaniment. Its feeling friend.
Painting: thinking-feeling. Not imagining.
“I do not use imagination when painting” (Ettinger 2010).
At the limit, the painting process is “holographic” (Ettinger 2010): at the same time as it makes a given image, thickens into an individual painting, it makes “a mental image that opens onto an interplay of purely thought rela- tions weaving a whole” (Deleuze 1986, 18). This purity of painting-thinking, colorfully felt, “renders impotent the imagination” (Deleuze 1986, 48).11
For “the whole has become Simultaneity” (Deleuze 1986, 48). Time- crystal. A duration not of time’s passing, but of its making taking painterly form. Pulsing. Yet and again. No more is not the end of it.
Imagination suspended in the “immensity” of an “absolute domain of luminous simultaneity, [. . .] of the changing whole that is Spirit” confi - ing itself, self-choosing (indistinguishably from what is chosen; Deleuze 1986, 48).
Moved by light.