“good-Bye condos, hello Technological Arts”
The art and intellectual worlds in which we work, specifi     in Montreal, are visibly confl	as much within the academic institution as among the many independent cultural producers contributing to the city’s inter- national reputation as a creative haven. There is a general recognition that the conditions for research and creative activity have signifi	changed with the rise of an increasingly speculative, high-turnover, innovation- driven “knowledge economy.” The “creative capital” fueling the econ- omy tends to derive from fl forms of social and intellectual cooperation often analyzed in terms of “immaterial labor,” defi as “the labor that produces the informational and cultural content of the commodity” (Laz- zarato 1996, 133).1 These forms of value-producing collaborative activity tend, by nature, to overspill sectorial and disciplinary boundaries, and to fundamentally call into question the traditional split between “theory” or “pure research” on the one hand and “practice” or “applied research” on the other. Problematizations of that split, of course, are nothing new. What is new, in our context, is the extent to which policies intended to facilitate collaboration across the divides have been prioritized in government cul- tural and academic policies and in university structures. The way this has been done has created real opportunities—but also highly troubling align- ments with the neoliberal economy.
In Canada, funding priorities have increasingly been angled toward team-based “interdisciplinary” research. Research projects are asked to jus- tify themselves not only in terms of their academic value for their fi   but for their promised contributions to the advancement of Canadian society as a whole. Given the neoliberal global context, in which the category of “society” is increasingly subsumed under that of the “economy” (Foucault 2008), it has become more and more common to hear research results referred to in the economic vocabulary of “deliverables” produced for the benefi of “stakeholders.” Highly capitalized “centers of excellence” have been perched atop the university departmental structure, each advertised as “world class” with a mandate to address one or more issues of “strategic importance” to the wealth of the nation.
The arts have not been spared from the trend toward the neoliber- alization of research.2 In 2003, a new funding category titled “research- creation” was introduced in Canada to encourage hybrid forms of activity promising to capture for research the creative energies of artists working
85