within the academic institution.3 The turn toward the institutionalization of research-creation was framed in interdisciplinary academic terms: “to bridge the gap between the creative and interpretive disciplines and link the humanities more closely with the arts communities.” There was a clear emphasis on the role arts can and do play in the wider cultural fi    and a recognition of “the potentially transformative nature of research under- taken by artist-researchers.”4 At the same time, the program set in place a structure of standardized quality control and an accounting of quanti- tative results of the kind the arts have historically resisted.5 In the neo- liberal context, the emphasis on making art-work accountable has the consequence, whether explicitly intended or not, of formatting artistic activity for more directly economic forms of delivery to stakeholders. The neoliberal idea is never far that artistic activity is most productive, and socially defensible, when it feeds into industry tie-ins helping fuel the “creative economy.” Moves within the academy toward institutionalizing research-creation are inevitably implicated in a larger context where the dominant tendencies are toward capitalizing creative activity. In that con- text, research-creation makes economic sense as a kind of laboratory not only for knowledge-based product development but for the prototyping of new forms of collaborative activity expanding and diversifying the pool of immaterial labor.
The same period in Montreal saw the inception of Hexagram, a multimillion-dollar “institute for research-creation in media arts and tech- nology.”6 As originally instituted, Hexagram took the form of a private– public partnership with an explicit orientation toward tie-ins between university-based art practitioners and the culture industries as they were undergoing rapid digitization. This orientation was further emphasized in the 2005 move of Hexagram to a newly commissioned building dubbed the “Integrated Engineering, Computer Science and Visual Arts Complex” (“EV Building”). Developments like the foundation of Hexagram and the associated “integration” of the arts within an engineering “complex” served to further complicate the old split between “theory/pure research” and “practice/applied research” with a new divide between “traditional” art and “new media” art. During this period, projects involving digital media began to take funding priority over traditional forms. This is in no small part because they employ the same technological platforms as the increas- ingly computerized economy. Among other things, this construes Hexa- gram’s “art outputs” as products that are potentially patentable, saleable
86