outside the art market narrowly defi The faintest promise of patent- ability delivers creative activity to the category of “intellectual property” (IP). Where art becomes IP, the productively contentious issues—ethical, aesthetic, political, ontological—that have historically played themselves out around the place and nature of the “work of art” are backgrounded in favor of the economic annexation of the sphere of creative activity and the value-adding capture of its products.7
The economization of creative activity in Montreal is not confi to academic institutions. It begins to literally change the face of the city. In 2006, the city of Montreal embarked on a large-scale redevelopment of a central-city district into a new Quartier des Spectacles.8 The plan was dedi- cated to solidifying the city’s marketing position internationally as an arts- and-culture “Festival City.” The fi visible step was a “lighting plan” to create a signage system to help rebrand the central-city area targeted for reinvigoration, which included the red-light district.9 The lighting project experiments with marking the urban landscape to make its repurposing visible, with the light motif attracting passersby to key sites. The red light of the district expands its connotation toward a vividness of experience open in a variety of forms to all who walk the streets, bringing to the fore local artists’ creative input on lighting and urban design. Here, research- creation extends to urban “experience design” with a mission to facilitate another industry tie-in: the tourism and hospitality industries. Experience design in light, annunciatory fi effect of a concrete remobilization of a coming arena of urban operation, has shown the way. The spotlight then turned to major construction and renovation projects as the Quartier des Spectacles’s urban redevelopment scheme entered its central phase. Art- research in practice has contributed to the opening of a major portfolio in the city’s economic strategy. Arts-related redevelopment strategies have even spread to the rural areas of Quebec. Headline about redevelopment plans for a southern Quebec ski station fallen on hard times because of cli- mate change: “25-Million-Dollar Tourist Project: Good-Bye Condos, Hello Technological Arts.”10