part of key personalities in the budding electronic music and digital arts community of Montreal toward hosting the international symposium of the Inter-Society for Electronic Arts (Montreal, 1995).12 From this seed, it has grown over the years into a central institution in the arts-and-culture mix of Montreal and become a magnet institution in the Quartier des Spectacles, all the while taking care to retain its community-based ethos and openness to experimentation. Its activities have expanded to include research pro- grams into new design practices, the creation of digital platforms in part- nership with independent producers as well as university-based researchers, technical training programs for cultural producers, cohosting of arts fes- tivals, organization of public lecture series and colloquia, and projects to reconceive the form and function of the art gallery and to reconceptual- ize the documenting and archiving of interactive and ephemeral forms of creative expression.
In the early years, we chose to base our projects at the SAT. Its posi- tioning at the heart of Montreal’s digital culture, coupled with its contin- ued commitment to traditions of artistic experimentation and openness to community-based cultural activism, made it a resonating chamber for the tensions—and potentials—afoot in the complex, shifting context we have been describing. However reticent we were of the direction many develop- ments in the larger neoliberal context were taking, we felt a strong affi with the creative energy and conceptual questioning at the heart of ven- tures initiated by the SAT, and were adamant about working in connection with community-based initiatives and not solely from the safe haven of the university. We were not interested in simply taking a critical stance, as if as university-based researchers/artists we stood outside the situation and did not ourselves participate in the new economy and in our own way profi  from it. We wanted to work in the thick of the tensions—creative, institutional, urban, economic—and build out from them.
We were looking to inhabit otherwise, to practice what we call, follow- ing Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari, an “immanent” critique. An imma- nent critique engages with new processes more than new products, from a constructivist angle. It seeks to energize new modes of activity, already in germ, that seem to offer a potential to escape or overspill ready-made channelings into the dominant value system. The strategy of immanent critique is to inhabit one’s complicity and make it turn—in the sense in which butter “turns” to curd. Our project was to try to do our small part to curdle “research-creation’s” annexation to the neoliberal economy.
88