first iteration
The SenseLab was founded in 2004 by Erin Manning with the aim of exploring this problematic fi Dedicated as it was to a practice of the event, the SenseLab avoided defi   itself in a formal organizational struc- ture. It was conceived as a fl	meeting ground whose organizational form would arise as a function of its projects, and change as the projects evolved. Process would be emphasized over deliverable products. In fact, process itself would be the SenseLab’s product. Membership would be based on elective affi	Anyone who considered himself or herself a member was one. The result is a shifting mix of students and professors, theorists and practitioners, from a wide range of disciplines and practices.
The fi SenseLab event grew from a challenge arising from discussions with Isabelle Stengers,16 who expressed as a criterion for her participa- tion in an academic event that it be just that: an event. In our conversa- tions with Stengers, it became clear that for an “event” to be an event, it is necessary that a collective thinking process be enacted that can give rise to new thoughts through the interaction on site. It is equally important that potential for what might occur not be pre-reduced to the delivery of already-arrived-at conclusions. The SenseLab took as its challenge to adapt this criteria to research-creation. What makes a research-creation event?
Given the research-creation context in which we were working, it would prove crucial to avoid not only the communication model but also any paradigm of “application,” whether it be practical results from existing research and design disciplines as applied by artists to their work in their own fi or conceptual frameworks as applied to art or technology by philosophers or other theoreticians. Concept-work could not adopt an external posture of description or explanation. It would have to be acti- vated collaboratively on site, entering the relational fray as one creative factor among others. The term “research-creation” was retained as a key term for an exploratory openness in this activity of producing new modes of thought and action. How to resituate the hyphen of research-creation to locate it as much within philosophical inquiry as artistic practice and between them both and other fi	17
The fi	event, Dancing the Virtual, took place in summer 2005 as the
91