techniques would have to be of two kinds: techniques to set in place propi- tious initial conditions, and techniques to modulate the event as it moved through its phases. The paradigm was one of conditioning, rather than framing. The difference is that conditioning consists in bringing co-causes into interaction, such that the participation yields something different from either acting alone. The reference is to complex emergent process, rather than programmed organization. Emergent process, dedicated to the singular occurrence of the new, agitates inventively in an open fi Programmed organization, on the other hand, functions predictably in a bounded frame and lends itself to reproduction.
A term was adopted for relational technique in its event-condition- ing role: “enabling constraint.” An enabling constraint is positive in its dynamic effect, even though it may be limiting in its form/force narrowly considered. Take, for example, an improvised dance movement. The major constraint is the action of gravity on the body. As a cause, gravity is impla- cable, its effects entirely predictable. But add to gravity another order of cause, and in the interaction between the orders of determination some- thing new and unforeseen may emerge. A horizontal movement cutting across the vertical plane of gravity can produce a certain quantum of lift temporarily counteracting gravity’s downward vector. The arc of the jump will be a collaboration between the action of gravity and the energy and angular momentum of the horizontal movement acting as co-causes. Add to the mix priming of the dancing bodies through techniques for entering into the movement and modulating it on the fl (including techniques of attention and concentration, as well as conceptual orientations) and a third order of co-causality actively enters in. Gravity has been converted from a limitative constraint to an enabling constraint playing a positive role in the generation of an event favorable to the improvisional emergence of a novel dance movement. This model of the enabling constraint was adopted for every aspect of the event-generating strategies for Dancing the Virtual and was retained for all subsequent events.
We wanted at all costs to avoid the voluntaristic connotations often car- ried by words like “improvisation,” “emergence,” and “invention.” There would be no question of just “letting things fl  ,” as if simply unconstrain- ing interaction were sufficient to enable something “creative” to happen. In our experience, unconstrained interaction rarely yields worthwhile effects. Its results typically lack rigor, intensity, and interest for those not directly
94