3 The ideas brought forth and the positionings effected would have to be performed in connection with texts everyone had read. This enabling constraint of “activating” ideas on site, in and for the group interactions, was essential given the differ- ences in participants’ backgrounds, as well as differences in age and professional status. No common set of references could be assumed. To prevent one group or individual from being si- lenced or disqualifi	each would be encouraged to “activate” what they knew or could do in a way that was anchored in a shared and always available print-based resource. This per- formative anchoring of each person’s contribution was espe- cially important for bringing philosophy into the co-causal mix, given how potentially exclusionary philosophical lan- guage may feel to those in other fi	But the same principle applied to other areas as well: a simple movement exercise can be as intimidating to the perpetually deskbound theorist as an elaborate philosophical text is to the movement practitioner. This gave rise to an emergent technique of relation. Despite careful preparation, the philosophical plenaries at Dancing the Virtual and subsequent events did have a tendency to become just that: plenaries. In a quick regrouping after a Whitehead ple- nary that seemed to silence the nonphilosophers in the room, Andrew Murphie came up with a brilliant proposition: con- ceptual speed dating. This technique of relation has since be- come a mainstay not only at SenseLab events but in classrooms across the network. The proposition is this: take half the group and classify them as “posts.” Their job is to sit or stand or lie in position in a circular formation at the edges of the room. The other half are “fl	As in speed dating, the fl	move from one post to another, clockwise, at timed intervals. Next, fi what Deleuze and Guattari call a “minor” concept—a concept that activates the philosophical web of a text without drawing attention to itself as a special term. This is where the real work comes in: the concept has to be understated enough that it has not yet entered common understanding and undergone
97