adopted, rather than the more usual one of gate keeping and accreditation (registration, identification by institutional affiliation). But what we wanted to stress was not our hospitability, our generosity, but the event’s own emer- gent modalities of hospitality. Participants were individually greeted and ushered past the threshold, where a space awaited that contained none of the expected accoutrements—no tables at the front for a presenter, no chairs in rows for an audience, no podium, no stage. Instead, a number of “affordances” presented themselves that did not take an immediately recog- nizable form, so that they had to be arrived at through exploration (for example, comfortable seating opportunities without actual seats). These were thought of as “attractors.” They were meant to encourage a certain active self-organizing on the participants’ part even as they arrived, based on an affective pull toward particular affordance rather than a prestruc- tured setting into place.
This principle was also used to self-organize the fi division of the par- ticipants into small work groups. Elements within the space were draped with colorful fabrics of alluring textures (primarily fake furs). To divide the group, participants were asked to move to the fabric attractor that most spoke to them. The resulting groups were thus formed on the basis of affi     , a common affective tending, rather than preinstituted catego- ries (rank, discipline, content area of expertise). In Deleuze and Guattari’s vocabulary, this focused the unfolding of the event on “minor” tendential movements rather than “major” structural categories. The overall affective tonality participants were tuned toward in their induction into the event was playfulness—play being the minor tendency contained by every insti- tuted structure, whose unleashing softens or disables postural default set- tings. A degree of play creates the potential for the emergence of the new, not in frontal assault against structure but at the edges and in its pores.
Participants of course still had their disciplinary stature, position in their fi	and postural habits. This was not denied. The point was not to create a fi		equalizing, as if we could simply step outside of structure. There is no denying that we all need structure of some kind for our professional and personal survival. We took to heart Deleuze and Guattari’s warnings about the dangers of too-sudden or brutal “deterritorialization” and the need for “sobriety” (which we understood in terms of the centrality of technique). The point was not to force a heroic struggle against structure, which too often leads into a “black hole” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 161). 25 The goal was altogether more modest: to prime people’s capacity for
100