what emanates from the architectural surround intermixes” (2002, 61). The area of exploration was the way in which the potentials expressed through embodied movement—and in their “return as the movement of thought”—exfoliate spaces of relation that settle into architectural form. Body and built surround were treated as phase-shifts of the same pro- cess: forms of life taking architectural form, their movements and poten- tials returning like an echo of the architectural surround to co-causal effect. For this event, generative feedback between movement on the one hand, and architecture and interactive spatial design on the other, played the role of the central organizing node that the interplay between corporeal and incorporeal or abstract movements had fulfi     for Dancing the Virtual.
The general approach and major orientations of Dancing the Virtual fl	over into Housing the Body. Many of the techniques of relation were reprised. The model of hospitality was fed forward in the form of an invi- tation to all the participants of Dancing the Virtual to return for Housing the Body. With the exception of two, everyone returned, which condensed our capacity to welcome new participants to ten, for a total of fi .26 As with the earlier event, a reading list was sent to the participants for online dis- cussion in advance of the date to provide a pivot for concept-work and its integrative alternation with embodied and hands-on work, toward a col- lective practice of structured improvisation.
The techniques of relation mobilized for Dancing the Virtual had orga- nized themselves around liminal activities forming event-transitions. For Housing the Body, a mechanism was sought to bring the liminality of these techniques—their minor, affective, tendential tenor—more concertedly into the central activities. A new genre of technique of relation was envi- sioned for this purpose: “platforms for relation.”
A platform for relation is a setup, system, or set of procedures that is already tendentially operative, but rather than affording a specifi func- tion at fi approach, is more suggestive of it. A platform for relation does work, it embodies a certain technicity, but it is designed in such a way that the limits and parameters of its potential functioning are not readily appar- ent. This strategic incompleteness makes platforms for relation function fi and foremost as attractors offering openings for inventive interaction. Platforms for relation are not technical forms standing as end products of a design or creative process. They are germination beds for a process rebe- ginning. The platforms for relation were envisioned to jump-start existing
102