collaborations and generate new projects, to gather the event’s unrolling around the incipience of technicities to come. The invention of platforms for relation was the enabling constraint for Housing the Body, Dressing the Environment.
The call for participation generated the fi set of platforms, as each participant was invited to propose one. Then the core event-organizing group parsed the platforms into categories and reproposed them as collec- tive platforms to the participants in a bid to limit the number of platforms to six. The platforms were then recomposed through affi in the months previous to the event by subgroups working independently through the SenseLab’s online grouphub. On the public setting of a “writeboard,” the platforms were intricately planned, sometimes co-germinating across one another. All groups were encouraged to begin to collectively plan how their platform could become a three-day workshop for the event. Within a few months, participants had settled into their platforms and altered them to suit their needs and desires. What the participants did not know yet was that we would ask them to give their platform away after the fi work- shop, thus creating a contagion between processes. We fully expected some platforms to resist the violence of this decree and that some would fall apart for lack of participants. The idea was to create a process within a process that would allow unforeseen interventions and regroupings to unfold. For Housing the Body, the generative transitions would be between platforms as well as between small-group and large-group activity.
The “Sound Surround” platform was one that resisted regrouping and ended up twice as large (and twice as loud!). They proposed an invented instrument: a microphone embedded in ice.27  Various sounds of unusual quality could be made by percussing, caressing, or shaving the ice. The sounds of the melting ice dripping into a metal tray below were captured by another microphone. Both sound feeds were input into a computer, where they could be digitally mixed and altered. The challenge of the group pro- posing the platform was to explore the sonic potentials of this setup, what manner of sound instrument it might lend itself to becoming, and what it might offer as an instrument to the unfolding of the event. On the fi day, percussion was the favored approach. The result was cacophony—and seriously percussed nerves all around.
By the third day, the approach had morphed. Microphones were set up throughout the space to add a continuous feed of ambient sound into the mix. The sound mix was then broadcast back into the room, forming a
103