Letting go was one of the event’s central enabling constraints. It would plan into the event the same kind of fi	fusional evolution that failures facilitate on an unplanned basis. The injunction to let go was dropped on participants without warning. It came as something of a shock to the sys- tem and elicited a certain resistance.
The resistance itself proved productive because it required a collective working-out of the force of the injunction. In terms of its processual effect as well as in terms of the justifi	, relative to the event’s self-organizing, of imposing enabling constraints through a decisional act by a subset of those involved. This brought out issues related to the positivity of osten- sibly “negative” constraints, and to the complex interplay of degrees of creative “freedom” and power of decision. It has always been a premise of the SenseLab that a purely consensual process deadens potential and that irruptions of decision are necessary for the vitality of a creative pro- cess. The innovation we meant to convey was the yoking of “decision” to “letting go,” practiced as an enabling constraint and a technique of relation, so that even in the case of an arbitrarily imposed decision, power would facilitate “power-to” and not “power-over.” Yoked to letting go, under the proper conditions of an ethics of engagement, arbitrary decision can oper- ate as a condition of spontaneity that actually activates greater degrees of collective freedom.
This somewhat brutal intervention on behalf of letting go was under- taken to focus on the notion that to be a success in its own terms the kind of process the SenseLab was experimenting with would have to be essentially disseminatory. The projects were not about ownership, either of products or of the process itself. They were not about credit; they were about creativity. Ultimately, they were about processual contagion: how self-organizing techniques and intensities of collaborative experimentation can self-propagate. We hoped that participants would come to view their contributions as gifts to creative contagion.
The concepts of dissemination and the gift would return as central refrains in the next two events. Together, they evoke the potential for a different economy: a nonneoliberal alter-economy of creative relation responding to the larger contextual issues set forth in the fi     two events.
105