By the end of Housing the Body, Dressing the Environment, it was already clear that we needed to come up with a different model for collective grouping. Otherwise we were not going to be able to welcome any new people: the interactive format of the events had reached its practical limit in terms of the number of participants. There was also the problem of the epi- sodic, exceptional nature of the events. This had initially been a strength. The fi two events extracted participants from their embeddedness in the everyday of their local contexts, creating a vista for acting and thinking otherwise. Now, however, this strength of the events began to feel like a limitation in some ways, as participants returned to their home environ- ments without necessarily being able to fi ways of following up on the momentum they might have found through the event. Collaborations did spin off in a number of cases. But as long as the problem of how to propa- gate the techniques of research-creative relation that had been collectively invented through the events was not addressed, the collaborations were left exposed in contexts sometimes hostile to their carrying-forward.29 The limitative political-economic, intellectual, and institutional constraints that produced the need to seek engagement elsewhere in the fi place threat- ened to clamp back down as soon as participants returned to their home turf. Added to that was the issue of travel costs to Montreal, both in terms of its stress on personal fi	and on the environment. It was clearly time to experiment further. How could the collectively produced techniques for transformative ethics of engagement be disseminated outward, into participants’ respective home environments, in ways singularly self-adapted to each habitat? How could the process we were collectively creating also open itself to nonacademics or nonprofessionals who did not have access to travel funding? How could this dissemination be effectively spread to groups that had not been involved in prior SenseLab events?
Starting from discussions with Australian SenseLab members Andrew Murphie30 and Lone Bertelsen, the beginning of a new distributive mech- anism was proposed that would seek to spark locally rooted collabora- tive intensities across the globe. The goal of our third event, Society of Molecules, was to fi     mechanisms and techniques that would allow
106