us to mutually interact and infl	one another, without the need for face-to-face encounter. The SenseLab would go remote. The problem was how to distribute self-organizing creative energies carrying potentially transformative force, while operatively interconnecting them at a distance: research-creation as action at a distance. Moving in that direction was a necessary part of one of the SenseLab’s larger goals: to contribute to a con- tinuing collective culture dedicated to an ethics of engagement, operating on a larger scale and conveying a power of contagion.
In the year leading up to Society of Molecules,31 a number of enabling con- straints were collectively brainstormed. Building on our planning conver- sations with the folks in Sydney, Australia, we knew that the global event would consist of correlated local events. Each local event would creatively address a “politico-aesthetic” issue felt by local participants to affect the quality of their lives. The “politico-” element referred to formative or orga- nizational forces that were active in each local environment, but extended beyond it in a way that placed them in connection with other locales. Examples might be: forces of redevelopment or economic stimulus that palpably changed the culture of the city; forces propelling or responding to the movement of people across borders; environmental issues as they play out locally; issues of urban planning and the conviviality of public spaces; and the potential local derelict spaces offer for alternative cultural initiatives adapting strategies from other emplacements or linking into ear- lier political movements for local empowerment. Our proposition was that these larger forces be addressed from the specifi angle of their local effect, but in cognizance of their wider signifi	and with an active attempt to bring their translocal dimension differently into play.
The “aesthetic” element referred to the need to respond creatively to these forces: positively and generatively. Finally, the local groupings, known as “molecules” (a reference to Deleuze and Guattari’s concept of the “minor” as “molecular” versus “molar”) would comprise between three and ten individuals. Their politico-aesthetic interventions would last between three hours and seven days and take place during the fi week of May 2009. It was also vital to us that the ban against “reporting” and the encour- agement of affectively oriented performative mechanisms for making con- nective transitions would apply to relations between molecules.
No constraint of any kind was placed on the content of the interven- tions, in keeping with the earlier events’ problematization of the danger of content-based distinctions for a generative process. Neither was there any
107