constraint on the form the interventions would take. Form and content would be entirely determined locally but remain open to the contagious infl	of other local groupings.
The problem of performatively activating links rather than relying on reportage was exacerbated by the distributed nature of the event. Tech- niques of relation would have to be invented to connect molecules across cities and countries and even continents. Two approaches used in previ- ous events were adapted to this purpose. The model of hospitality was hybridized to become one of diplomacy.32 This became the technique of the “emissary.”
Each molecule was invited to choose an emissary as well as to name a host. The emissary of each local grouping was paired with the host of another group. Sometime in the fi  months preceding the main event, the emissary would travel to the host group (virtual voyages were a possi- bility where resources did not allow physical travel). The time and mode of their arrival would be unannounced: the arrival of the guest had an ele- ment of the unexpected. The role of the emissary was to make “fi con- tact” with the other local culture. To facilitate the meeting, “movement profi   were compiled by the SenseLab and distributed to the emissar- ies. The movement profi described the designated host’s habitual daily movements through the city so that if the emissary so desired, fi contact could be made in a performative fashion, taking advantage of the element of surprise.33 Emissaries were encouraged to use physical address infor- mation and standard forms of communication like cell phones sparsely, focusing instead on “encountering” the host, guided by the profi Upon meeting, the host’s job was to gather the local molecule together and treat the emissary to a “relational soup.”
The relational soup could be anything at all. The enabling constraint was that whatever form it took, it should give the emissary an experience of the host group—a taste of that group’s process, modalities of interac- tion and organizing, affective tonality, and concerns. Sharing an actual meal was a simple default option. Whatever the relational soup proved to be, the emissary would return home with a “recipe” for it. The recipe was something that packaged the relational-soup activity into a technique of relation that could serve as a formula to be adapted for use by the home group upon the emissary’s return if the technique of relation it encapsu- lated resonated with that group’s own process. The recipe was one of the ways letting go was integrated into the interaction, now tweaked toward a
108