In the end, seventeen molecules in fi   cities around the world partici- pated in Society of Molecules. Molecular interventions were of many types. As had been the case with the platforms for relation of Housing the Body, some of the interventions were specifi conceived for Society of Mole- cules, while other groups used already-initiated projects as focal points for integrating into the Society of Molecules networking process.
To give just a few examples of a molecular intervention, the San Diego– Tijuana molecule addressed immigration issues around the U.S.–Mexican border. They hijacked a public telephone booth on the Mexican side and converted it into a free phone by patching the connection into Skype. Mexicans who were deported from the United States or encountered diffi- culty entering were invited to use the phone to notify friends and family or to call for help.34 The Amsterdam group addressed issues of ecology and food practices. They foraged for edibles growing in the city and prepared a collective meal from what they found in the urban environment. One of the Montreal groups spent time observing the life of derelict spaces in the city slated for redevelopment: who used them, how they used them, what patterns of movement grew up around them, and how they were policed. They joined in the patterns of movement and tried to organize participa- tory encounters that gave a gift of conviviality to the ephemeral commu- nity they found. Among these was a “Lack of Information Booth” that invited the public to explore the missing links between the offi     view of the city and its redevelopment and the ground-level forms of life fi - ing the pores in the urban fabric. The Ottawa–Gatineau molecule perfor- matively, and ironically, addressed feminist issues. They celebrated the vagina dentata.
In the hope of building on the energies of the event, a special issue of the SenseLab journal Infl	was prepared in the event’s aftermath that sought to continue the networking by further developing concepts
111