tendrils into the city surrounds? How could the reinvention of the SAT as an exploded gallery extend or intensify what research-creation can do, and how might that experimentation infi	on its own exploding terms, the neoliberal project of the Quartier des Spectacles? Savoie gently suggested that helping answer these questions might be a project the SenseLab would be interested in taking on.
The seed for Generating the Impossible was planted. This fi event of the series would take place in July 2011, during the rollout of a new phase of the SAT’s existence marked by the opening of a complete building ren- ovation, including the addition of a third story topped by a large-scale interactive, immersive media environment in the shape of a dome (the “SATosphere”). The SAT planned to use the architectural rebuilding as an occasion for renewing its experimentation as an art institution, including a rethinking of the modalities of exhibition and kinds of creative events such an institution affords. (Please refer to the fi     chapter, “Postscript to Generating the Impossible,” for a brief account of how the event actu- ally transpired. This chapter, under its original title, “Propositions for an Exploded Gallery: Generating the Impossible,” was originally written to share with other collectives as a contribution toward what we imagined might become a “process seed bank.” Once it began to take monstrous form [we had originally anticipated writing a short fi page piece!], we realized that extending our practice into a written document on techniques that have emerged over the past ten years would also allow us to take stock of where we had come to as a group and to collectively reorient toward the next event. Accordingly, it was written in the future tense. We have retained the original wording here.)
To ensure that this contribution also adds to the ongoing self-reinvention of the SenseLab, the approach the SenseLab has developed up to now will be turned on its head, in keeping with our exhortation to practice letting go. For each of our previous events, participants were asked to bring only their techniques and to leave their products behind, so that the meeting would occur at the level of the work’s technicity and its intensive capac- ity to propagate and vary. The space of encounter was always carefully conditioned and enabling constraints set in place. This time, on the con- trary, we will ask people to come with all the products—papers, artworks, thoughts, ideas—that it pleases them to bring, as well as their techniques. As a further challenge, this cacophony will not be organized in advance: except renting a campground in the forest for all participants for fi    days
113