from the commotional fullness of an impossible “what if” to the “here now” of an event risking its own singular individuation.
“Render visible,” Klee said; do “not render or reproduce the visible” (quoted in Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 342). What is rendered visible in painted forms, for Klee, are the generative forces in-forming the aesthetic event. For Generating the Impossible, we propose to activate the genera- tive forces of a form of research-creation encounter—not so much render them visible as multimodally palpable, in an unforeseen unfolding com- position of sense modes, spaces, roles, and rhythms of transition entering into unaccustomed resonance. Generating the Impossible’s proposition is to render palpable the force of the event’s self-articulating expression. This is a radical empirical proposition, in James’s sense of the term: the singular relational force of a welling event, as James emphasizes, is as real as any of the generic forms or fi	contents that may enter into it as building blocks or come out of it as products.
An event’s relational force cannot be reproduced. It remains, always, a singular movement. It has a velocity, uniquely played out from the initial conditions at hand. It is potentializing, and renders potential. It follows the arc of a tendency working itself out.
Generating the Impossible proposes to intervene directly at the level of generative tendencies, in such a way as to render them palpably retriev- able for new research-creation events. Tendencies are as singular as an event’s generative force, their “pure and simple line” resolutely connected to their eventful coming-to-expression in a specifi time and place. They can be iteratively reactivated, to variable effect. We are not proposing to model what research-creation events can be. Instead, through the technic- ity of singular tendings, we are collectively, eventfully, setting into motion a metamodeling of emergence.
For Félix Guattari, to metamodel is to render palpable lines of forma- tion, starting from no one model in particular, actively taking into account the plurality of models vying for fulfi	Metamodeling takes forces of formation actively into account from the angle of their variations to come.37 The modeling is “meta-” because the lines it draws are “abstract.” They are abstract in the sense that the formative tendencies they map are eventfully more-than present, returning across iterations, in continuing variation. Events are both here-now, actual in their occasions, and always in excess of their present iterations. Metamodeling seeks to map their refor- mative excess.
116