global effect of their coming-together. Their diversity disappears into the unity of that effect, and into its structural function in the larger organi- zation of the piece. An attunement in Stern’s sense does not subsume the singularity of the contributing actions that come into relation, even as it brings them together to joint effect.
Take an animated conversation. Words move between participants, accompanied by gestures. These gestures, while tuned to the words, perform a kind of alternate rhythm, opening the conversation to its prearticulation—the ways in which it moves beyond the said into the reg- ister of the felt but unsaid. As the gestures begin to affect how the conver- sation evolves, they begin to play off each other, in a rhythm of alternation and overlay, creating complex patterns of resonant emphasis and contra- puntal divergence. But this does not happen through imitation or mim- icry. The gestures do not repeat the simultaneous fl of words, nor do they resemble or match them. They accompany them, on their own level, in a manner all their own.
The improvised composition of co-gesturing enters into a pattern vis- à-vis the fl of words. An even more complex emergence of resonant emphasis and contrapuntal divergence arises between the gestures and the words. Together, they make felt a speaking-with that moves the con- versation. The words on either side of the conversation co-speak, just as the hands, face, arms, and torso co-gesture. They play off each other, in alternation, sharing the heat of the moment. They overlay and cross, attuning both parties to the conversation’s continually passing present. Even moments of confusion or discord are attunements, in that they intensely re-cue the participants to what is happening. The play of words has its own improvised rhythm that is neither separable from the accom- panying rhythm of the gestures nor reducible to it. Double articulation: words and gestures differently coming together. This doubly articulated fl is punctuated by felt prearticulations of an interruptive kind: begin- nings of interjections cut off in the name of politeness, audibly perfor- mative but meaningless grunts and squeaks. The bodily gestures are most intense at precisely those moments. A backgrounding, foregrounding dance of prearticulation, moving between gesture and words, makes the force of the conversation felt beyond its semantic formulation.40 The conver- sation is less a back-and-forth between two separate bodies than a single relational flow occurring in complex relation. Words and gesture, tone and rhythm, fold generatively back into one another, returning to the
119