quasi-chaos of tending-toward-meaning from which this conversation— and all language—comes. The overall effect is a coming-differently- together-again-into-language in a shared event of speech that was integrally co-composed.
Each party to the conversation will have thought and felt differently. Each will continue afterward to feel, again very differently, the tendential force of the prearticulations that came to the “tip of the tongue” but then were swallowed back down by the churning momentum of the event. What was said-gestured, and gestured-unsaid, will modulate the ongoing relation. It will have implanted or infl	tendencies. Accordingly, it will have a co-causal infl	on the forms and contents of the participants’ future intercourse together—and even perhaps apart. How many times do we “rehearse” or “rehash” with one person a conversation we had with another? How many times has a prearticulated tuning toward language (a not-yet of words) popped up later as a fully fl	comment we are cer- tain would have clinched the argument, causing an obsessive replay of the conversation in our heads? Each subsequent conversation will relationally fold the thisness of conversing into its open fi of emergence. A conver- sation never stands on its own, separate from its capacity to rejig the fi
of attunement. It has already spread like ripples on a fl	social surface.
When all is said and done, the conversation will have had a different lived quality for each participant. But it will still have been strictly the same speech event. This is attunement: a polyrhythmic coming-differently- together through the same event, carrying the event’s fi of emergence through its unfolding, in such a way that its having happened becomes a co-condition for what follows—without in any way modeling it. Each new conversation will have to start all over again, under altered initial conditions, from the fi of emergence of language. Each subsequent conversation will carry the fi of emergence through itself in its own reimprovised way, to new polyrhythmic effect, expressing a lived quality singularly its own. Each conversation will happen not in the individual bodies of the participants, but in the relational unfoldings of its actual and potential expressions.
For Generating the Impossible, we emphasize “emergent” attunement to underline the impersonal aspect of attunement: the fi	of (to return to the same example) conversational relation as a self-extending, indefi social “surface.” We conceive of research-creation similarly: as an indefi- nite “surface” of relation rippled by previous SenseLab events. The fi	of
120