For example, there is a formal economy of academic activity in which value is assessed in terms of number of peer-reviewed research results. The greater the countable research outcomes, the more able a researcher is to continue to produce: his or her record can be used to justify better work- ing conditions and access to research-project funding. Parallel to this, there is an academic star system. It functions as an informal economy bestow- ing intellectual prestige-value on select individuals. The formal and infor- mal academic economies are most often mutually reinforcing. Both tie into the monetary economy, in the form of increased earning power on the academic job market. In the art arena, there is a similar conjunction between a formal economy (based on the number of jury-assessed shows and prizes and the number of solo versus group shows) and an art-world star system informally distributing prestige-value. Traditionally, the tie-in of the art world to the monetary economy is through the commodity market for art objects. With research-creation and other ways of professionalizing artistic activity in the university system, the tie-in extends to a hybrid art– academic job market as well.
Monetary economy, of course, can mean only one thing: the capitalist economy. The capitalist economy taps into all other formal and informal economies in a continuously varied attempt to annex them to itself, which is to say, to its particular forms of formal valuation and indexing. The cap- italist economy is economically all-subsuming. It is universal.
The capitalist economy is not only a universal process of subsuming all forms of value to monetary valuation. It also formally builds into its defi	of value an imperative to quantitative value-adding. Capital is, by definition, money that grows more money. The capitalist economy is formally dedicated to quantitative growth, over and above all other values. Capitalist techniques of relation are, without exception, mecha- nisms of accumulation.
All of this matters for the experimental practice of research-creation we are advancing because the universal subsumption of all other economies, formal and informal, under the capitalist economy amounts to a capture of every species of event—including their respective fi  of emergent expressibility, the heterogeneity of their co-composing polyrhythms, their improvisational power to repeat singularly with variation, their tendential arcs, their cresting expression on social surfaces of recording that constitute evolving genres of co-activity (like that of conversation, but also an infi - ity of others). When the capitalist economy subsumes all other economies,
122