This book runs writing interference. It seeks to compose concepts, of a cer- tain kind, in writing. And in the composing, it articulates in the breach, in the fragile difference between modes of thought, in the act.
Our goal: to experiment with the breach. Not to tell art how to think, or to tell dance how to understand itself. But to bring into relief techniques, in the painting, in the dancing, in the creation of events, from which a singular proposition may breach. For it is in the breaching that thought acts most intensely, in practices co-composing.
For us, to write philosophically is not to cast a predefi conceptual trawlnet into the waters of an outside practice. It is more like dipping into the same creative pond. A stone dropped into a pond produces a ripple pattern. Two stones dropped into the same pond produce two ripple pat- terns. Where the ripples intersect, a new and complex pattern emerges, reducible to neither one nor the other. This is the kind of conceptual inter- ference pattern the book’s writing aspires to. Don’t just write about dance. As William Forsythe says, dance that thought around. Dance that choreo- graphic thought around in philosophy’s act of writing.
In our own acts of writing together, we have had to learn how to ripple the difference between two stone-hard heads. While negotiating our dif- ferent ways of dropping into the breach of the practices, we have found ways to encounter together. We have had to learn to compose an uneasy, two-headed thinking in the act, across a multiplicity of practices. Uneasy, because thought together is not thought controlled. Uneasy, because writ- ing in the thinking is an intrinsically fragile art, however many heads are involved. Uneasy, but beautifully intense. Because when skulls bump, the resulting brain-wave interference-patterns can be a revelation to both.
One never writes alone. As Deleuze and Guattari say, one writing alone is already a crowd. Our words in this book are never without the echoes of the voices of those whose difference we chose to write with. Not to men- tion the moves, gestures, colors, architectures, and events of the creative practices we encountered. A veritable cacophony. Or better: an ecology. Composing each of the chapters involved reinventing our techniques for writing together in a way that could distill from the cacophonous ecology of our experiences together a shared line of thought, one that we hope has done justice to the thinkings-in-the-act that we have had the good fortune to experience fi	through residencies and interactions with creative practitioners.