it is not just capturing monetary value. It is capturing processes of indi- viduation. It is capturing entire fi of emergent relation. It is capturing powers of becoming. Capitalism endeavors nothing less than the universal capture of forms of life. It subsumes them, sometimes gently, more often brutally, to techniques of relation dedicated to quantitative value-adding and accumulation.
It is important not to mistake this capture for a homogenization. The forms of life captured by the capitalist process produce value by distin- guishing themselves from each other. Capitalism is as singularizing as it is subsuming.41 The issue is that the singularization is subject to competition in a way that foregrounds quantitative measures of success over the rich- ness of qualitative diversity. The heterogeneity of forms of life is important only to the extent that those forms add capital value. Although the cap- italist process creates the conditions for the singular emergence of forms of life and feeds off their heterogeneity, it ultimately attributes no value to them as such. It is supremely indifferent to the qualitative richness that animates its fi
Recent currents in Marxist-inspired thought analyze the phenomenon of singularization and heterogenesis animating the contemporary capital- ist process in terms of “immaterial labor.” The idea is that in a “knowledge economy,” forms of creative cooperation are invented to feed the new informational market. These collaborative processes compose new forms of relational life. Given that they are processes of cooperation, they have a potential for self-organization. Under certain circumstances, they might succeed in decoupling from the dominant system of valuation to affi the value of their self-propagating events in their own terms. Movements like open source, peer-to-peer sharing, and tools for collective web-based authorship are seen as harbingers of this, particularly to the degree to which they become self-affi	“ways of life.” When this happens, they poten- tially co-compose the beginnings of an alter-economy. This foretokens an overcoming of capitalism from the inside out, in a playing out of one of capitalism’s own immanent tendencies—that of creatively productive col- laborative relation.