ideal: the desirability of a form of life. This is not a transcendent ideal. It operates immanently to the events it concerns. Uncrossed, the limit is a sustaining factor in the serial production of new iterations of events in the same qualitative fi	If it is crossed, it will have been a generative factor in a “necessary rebeginning” (1987, 438). Either way, it is a creative factor. According to Deleuze and Guattari, the principle that exchange is fun- damentally “marginalist” (sustained by a qualitative evaluation relative to a limit beyond which lies a necessary rebeginning) and that the operation of the limit is bound up with surplus also organizes the capitalist market.42 Not only is capitalist exchange immanently organized along marginalist lines, but within the fi		of capitalist exchange proliferate forms of life that are not capitalist per se, but directly affi	a form of life and the experien- tial qualities it harbors, in similarly marginalist terms. The active organi- zation of a fi	of relation as a function of an immanent limit coinciding with a threshold to a new rebeginning is a characteristic of all qualitative economies (and of the qualitative dimension of economies oriented over-
all toward quantifi
Take Deleuze and Guattari’s example of the alcoholic. In the process of drinking, each drink exchanged by the alcoholic for money is, to some extent, the potential “last” drink. If the potential “lastness”—the limit- idea—is not negotiated, the drinking process, and the forms of pleasures, pains, and social interactions associated with it, will not be sustainable. For the process to continue, the last drink must be not the last but a next- to-the-last—one glass before the end. The last glass will take the alcoholic over the edge into a new relational fi  harboring other relational quali- ties. If the penultimate is passed and the limit reached, the alcoholic will cross the threshold from intoxication to, for example, alcohol poisoning. The threshold will have been passed from form-of-life to life-threatening breakdown. New relational fi then await: the hospital, Alcoholics Anon- ymous, possibly the cemetery. What “last” means must be continuously recalibrated. The limit will be relative to any number of factors: the speed of the drinking, the level of fatigue, the level of stress, and the quality of the company. The intuitive evaluation of the limit will immanently mod- ulate the relational fi  of alcoholic experience. If the limit is not reached, the drinking will rebegin, following its own rhythm of intoxication and sobering up. If the threshold is crossed, the result might be disastrous—or healing. The necessary rebeginning might be a move toward a restorative
126