quasi-chaotic conditions nudging harmony toward polyrhythm. The destruction of the gift leaves nothing but the having-given. It focuses the experience on the event of giving and its iterations and modulations.
Potlatch is a practice for reorienting and remodulating the field of exchangeability. This reorienting, as Mauss points out, involves a giving of “a part of one’s nature” (1966, 10). We take this not to suggest a subject- oriented view of donor and receiver, but as an acknowledgement that what connects the social group is the sharing of the more-than of their individ- ual subjectivities in the context of a ritual technique of hospitality and event-based generosity.44
What is given, Mauss adds, is not inert (1966, 9). What is given is the gift of giving itself, replete with resettings of the conditions for emergence of the fi of relation. Generosity as ritual technique occurs in a fi of relation that cannot be reduced to the giver as individual, or the object as gift, or even the punctual connection between the two in a particular act of giving. Potlatch is a giving for the event by the event. It is the setting into motion of a platform for relation that activates the potential for modes of collaboration, pushing exchangeability to its creative limit. In potlatch, giving reorganizes the event-ecology of co-composition.
The gift of giving touches the limit. The “last” gift is the limit in relation to which to the fi  of exchangeability maintains its rhythm and inten- sity. In potlatch, giving reorients the fi of relations without forcing a complete undermining of the communities’ modalities of operation. In tribal societies, the gift brings clans together for a celebration. The potlatch wards off war by staging an activity that, like war, is excessive, but unlike war activates the limit of the social fi  without crossing the threshold into violence and completely unforeseeable consequences. Ritual plays a key role here, creating an experiential space-time that diverges from, while still composing with, everyday experience. Without the metastability of rit- ual, without the practices that creatively reassess the limit from within the bounds of the event itself, there is always a risk that the threshold will be crossed into a different fi    of relation entirely. (The destruction of objects of exchange also wards off capitalism by preventing the accumulation of a surplus.) The giving of the event is how this technique of relation acti- vates emergent comings-together and belongings-together, subordinating the categories of donor and receiver to their continued co-involvement in a shared process. A gift economy is not about the object. It is about Klee’s
129