as simply the destruction of actual objects. While it is certainly also a destruction of wealth, the potlatch ritual is even more so an active for- getting of the wealth itself through a foregrounding of the event-time of giving. Forgetting activates the fi of relation in such a way that the emphasis is based no longer on the subject–object encounter (and all the forms of ressentiment this calls forth) but on the ways in which this singularity of expression activates a new kind of collective futurity. For- getting, as Maurice Blanchot emphasizes, “ushers in a thought, a future, a community without any guarantees.” This ushering is the giving itself— not a gift of the past, but a gift for the future—“a leap into the unknown” (Ramadanovic 2001). In Generating the Impossible, the usher of destruction and forgetting will be the free radical.
If forgetting is the condition of giving, the gift is the sign of the impossi- ble. As such, it cannot be thought in time. It evades the linear time-structure of capitalist economics: the arrow of value-adding and accumulation. Instead, it invents a time of the not-yet that will have been, a future- anterior in and of the relational fi of giving. Capitalism, as Joseph Schumpeter famously stated, is also about excess and “creative destruc- tion.” But it practices forgetting as a kind of inertia. It forgets to actively forget, in order always to return to exchange in a way that ostensibly makes it all about the object again. The capitalist economy continually translates excess relational activity into objective surplus. It stockpiles objects and instruments of exchange (material and immaterial) for eventual turnover, as part of its market pricing mechanisms and investment cycles. In order to do this, it is forever requantifying: translating the qualities of life associ- ated with objects of exchange as found in their emergent fi of relation into quantitative measures.
As discussed earlier, research-creation participates in both the gift alter- economy and the dominant quantitative economy. The art market is no different than any other. It translates the excess relational activity of research-creation into object-oriented surplus, even fi ing ways to stockpile and quantitatively value “ephemeral art.” The prevalence of the concern for new modes of documentation and archiving is a sign of the art-economic times. Prestige-value, for its part, is ever renascent. The col- lective evaluation at the limit in the model of the gift economy is back- grounded, and the vicissitudes of the market itself, its arrow of measurable value adding, are foregrounded.
The shift from a gift economy of excess to a quantitative surplus
131