Our goal was not simply to describe the complexity of a work’s work- ings, but to activate its modalities of thought, its rhythms, in a new con- certation. This meant fi	our way into artistic practices to reconnect with philosophy’s outside, to endeavor to make felt how philosophy can co-compose with other creative practices. Too often, writing stands to the side, outside the action, as though the “real” work happened elsewhere, as though what writing was equipped to do with “real” practices was merely to describe them—or to proscribe for them, in judgment. We took it as the task of this book to make it felt, in its own rhythms, that writing is as real and creative a practice as any, and that it lives in an ecology of experience, with all the doings adrop, and all the makings enacting.
The hope is that this might be seen as a book of techniques—techniques for composing with creative practice, for composing emergent collectiv- ities, for composing thought in the multiplicitous act. Technique, as we understand it throughout, belongs to the act. Techniques are not descrip- tive devices—they are springboards. They are not framing devices—they activate a practice from within. They set in motion.
Thank you, Bracha Ettinger, for opening your home to us and for shar- ing the painting process inhabiting there. Thank you, William Forsythe and the Forsythe Company, for putting up with us for a month of questions and cacophonous participation in your movements of thought. Thank you, Arakawa and Gins, for your acute curiosity and your generosity in dialogue and for providing us with a panoply of thinking-body procedures for the writing. Thank you, DJ Savarese, Amanda Baggs, and Tito Mukhopadhyay, for the perceptual acuity with which you share your world.
Thank you to all the members of the SenseLab with whom we have had the privilege of experimenting in the collective organization of events exploring how art and philosophy can co-compose. For both of us, the SenseLab’s varied activities have been a privileged incubator for the thinking-in-the-act this book is all about. Over the past ten years, we have been lucky to be able to gather around us and circulate among philos- ophers, artists, activists, and researchers who have been unfailingly enthu- siastic in the process of developing new techniques for the invention of modes of thought in an event-based ecology of experience. This book is dedicated to you.