activities would be called upon to generate monetary returns. We could still work at the SAT in the SATosphere, but the new model required proj- ects that were not fully subsidized from outside sources to earn their keep by bringing in a paying public. This was an obvious problem for a project meant to explore the gift as a living critique of the neoliberal economy. The SAT’s earlier proposition was that we “explode the gallery,” creating fl that might open the site of art to cacophonous interventions poised between modes of address (the conference paper), display (the art exhibi- tion), and collaboration (the participatory installation), as well as opening it onto its outside, reconnecting it to its urban surroundings. Now there would be no “explosion.” The site’s modalities were given in advance, and any experimentation would have to happen within its domed structure. Not only that, but experimentation would be more regulated: channeled toward exploring the potentials of a given artistic platform—that of this particular immersive environment. This exerted pressure on artistic activity to conform to a content-providing paradigm, prelimiting the eventfulness of the process and its participatory intensity by reinstating a dichotomy between the artist/technological expert and the paying audience. The site thus went from being an open proposition (the SAT as spatial-conceptual catalyzer of action, a platform for relation in building form) to a high- stakes arena branded by its own proprietary technical system, one requir- ing special access and inside knowledge. In addition, the SAT’s underlying assumption in this new phase was that artistic activity should ideally pro- vide “deliverables” to other sectors. The SAT was facing a Faustian bargain: die an ignominious death by debt, or fall more into step with the enterprise model of the neoliberal economy. Was it having the last “glass,” crossing the threshold into a different relational fi than that of the exploratory community-based center it had been up to then?
It was clear that Generating the Impossible could not function within these new conditions. The event had to remain open to its undoing. Even had we had subsidies and been in a position to pay for access, the SATosphere would have constrained us to a preestablished site that already presumed to know how to manage what art can be, and what art can do. The shift the SAT was experiencing seemed all too reminiscent of our initial con- cerns about research-creation’s growing indebtedness to the capitalist econ- omy and its enterprise model. Later, we would come back to the SAT with a project to creatively explore the tensions surrounding this shift, but we
137