felt we would not be prepared for this until after Generating the Impossible
had carried our practices further. For now, we had to move on.1
This shift came late in the process. After months of working collectively with the SATosphere in mind, those of us on the ground in Montreal liais- ing with the SAT had to make a diffi call. We concluded that the event needed to reorient, and sent out a message to participants. Our proposi- tion: drop the site. Let the site be the city as a whole. But with a confound- ing twist: let the site be the city as a whole—from the angle of the forest. A proposition—and a provocation.
SenseLab participants embraced the proposition and the provocation and set the process on a new eventfully self-organizing course. The prepa- ratory discussions on the SenseLab’s online grouphub soon settled around the concept of transduction.
As originally planned, we would start at the hunting camp at Mekoos, deep in the northern wilds 250 kilometers from Montreal. The approach, however, would be different than projected. Rather than starting from purposely unprepared, quasi-chaotic conditions, we would set conditions for structured improvisation in place as we had in the fi three events. A number of platforms for relation would be used to catalyze the collective creative process in the forest setting toward the kind of emergent collec- tive attunement we had always envisioned for the event. Then we would break camp and head for the city. How could an emergent process catalyz- ing in the woods be prolonged into the city? What does it mean to trans- duce a creative process from one set of enabling conditions to another? If the form, as well as its content, changes in the interval of transduction, is it still the same process? Can a forest-conditioned process renaturalize in and for the city, in a way that effectively brings something of the urban environment to expression, in creative relation to its ex-urban surrounds? Would that event constitute a contagion? A proliferation? A break? A vari- ation? A tracing? Much discussion and preparation went into grappling with these issues. The “diagram” (in Gilles Deleuze’s sense) emerged as a pivot concept for attempting to understand, speculative-pragmatically, what a transduction can do.
What follows is not meant in any way as a full account of the event in all its speculative-pragmatic facets. Its aim is modest: to provide a brief nar- rative account that gives a summary sense of how the event took shape as it transduced its own initial sense of itself, as prospectively fl	in the
138