Affi	groups
In the aftermath of the event’s reorientation to its loss of a starting point, there came the necessity to fi an organizational strategy conducive to nonhierarchical, collective self-organizing that could at the same time offer the mutual aid that might be necessary for life outside the city and create the continuity that would be needed to keep the event together as it shifted from the forest back to the city.
Originally used by anarchists during the Spanish Civil War, the affi group structure has become a key organizational tool for nonhierarchical social movements, passing through the antinuclear movements of the 1970s and 1980s, into the antiglobalization movement of the early 2000s, and most recently into the Occupy Movement of 2011. An affi	group is an autonomous decision-making unit, usually composed of fi	to fi - teen people, networked horizontally. Its purpose is to distribute decision making transversally across a larger group without resorting to a central authority structure. There is no central leadership, even in the represen- tative form of elected delegates to an executive group. Interaction moves between autonomously organized small-group initiatives and assemblies of all participants without differentiation by rank or function. The pur- pose of the assemblies varies depending on the organizational needs, but what they have in common is that they wield no coercive, disciplinary, or even regulatory power. Their aim is not to produce conformity to a com- mon program. The aim is to coordinate a heterogeneity of energies, trans- forming them, in the back-and-forth between small-group interaction and whole-group interaction, into creative synergies. The affi	group struc- ture works to enhance self-organization by conducting differences into a symphony of collectively attuned initiatives, rather than reducing differ- ences by funneling them into a common adherence to a directive set of principles and strategies.
As with all SenseLab events, there was a daily movement between whole-group interaction and small groups. The affi   group structure was another exploratory technique for creating a transversality that would eclipse the tendency for “reporting”: as with other events, we were inter- ested less in moving content from one group to another than in creating fi     of affect that could fl    between them. For Generating the Impossible,
139