each day began with the larger group assembled together for work sessions organized around a preselected series of philosophical readings.2 With the affi groups in place, we hoped the work of the large-group events would trickle down into the rest of the day’s hands-on experimentation at the affi group level, synergizing creative thought and action into an inte- grated research-creation process.
Certain affi     groups formed organically in the months before we left for Mekoos. Others were formally struck. There was one decreed enabling constraint to their activities: while at Mekoos, each affi group would prepare one evening meal (paid for by the SenseLab) for the entire group of fi four Generating the Impossible participants.3 The organization of food provision was to be a convivial mirror of the overall organizational struc- ture, with the shared evening meals playing the role of informal evening assemblies. The planning for meals was a complex logistical task, espe- cially since the remoteness of the location made it unfeasible to source food once we were on the ground (the nearest grocery store was an hour and a half away by car over country roads, some of which become impas- sible when wet). The collective food platform involved all participants in a logistics of mutual care that it was hoped would color the overall ethos of the encounter.
Another task of each affi  group was to develop, in the months lead- ing up to the event, a key concept to help trigger and orient Generating the Impossible’s self-organizing. The concepts were drawn from readings pro- posed to the whole group by individual SenseLab network participants. The readings were discussed in regularly scheduled collective brainstorming sessions on Skype. These whole-group sessions fed into and out of discus- sions taking place on affi group-specifi writeboards on the grouphub. Each affi group approached the preparatory concept work differently. Some immediately threw themselves into meal planning, developing their concepts and evolving group process around that activity. Others focused directly on the transductive question of how to develop a distributive cre- ative process across sites. Others organized weekly Skype reading groups branching off from the main reading-focused sessions. In the end, key concepts explored by affi  groups included tending, attention/attend- ing, exaptation, emergence/emerging, and mapping/choreographing. All of the concepts were developed with a view to setting in motion the col- lective organization that would creatively enable the shift from the forest to the city.
140