The gift-giving ceremony was based on a well-known game.4 All of the wrapped gifts were heaped in one location, unmarked as to the identity of the giver. As gifts “for the event,” they were meant to offer something that could potentially be activated as an affordance or platform for relation in view of the interactions to come. This would make each gift an offer of a relational angle of involvement in the event that the recipient might later activate. Participants were invited to come up, one by one, and choose one gift. The catch was that when it was your turn, you could decide not to open a new gift, but instead take a gift that someone else had already received and unwrapped. Should you take someone else’s gift, the gift’s original recipient would then be invited to choose a new gift. Participants put a great deal of themselves into the gifts they gave, knowing that they would be offered to the group anonymously. The anonymity of the gift- ing made the “personality” of the gift an occurrent character of the event, rather than an identifying marker of the source individual. The opportu- nity to “steal” an already-given gift lent a ludic element to the ceremony, making the exchange itself more performative and loosening the connota- tion of the transfer of rightful possession that normally underwrites other practices of gift giving. The gift-giving ceremony set in place a relational unwrapping across the threshold into the event that exceeded the giver– recipient duality. The gift was attached more to the collective potential that might be deployed over the coming days than to the giver or the receiver. This ceremony was one aspect of the gift economy at the basis of the event. Over the year previous to the event, we had set up various ways of creating informal funding and resource-sharing structures to ensure that no participant was excluded for lack of funds.5 As with past events, we also worked with a local grocer to supply low-cost food for on-site preparation during the event.6 Montreal-based SenseLab participants offered couches and extra rooms to accommodate those who chose not to or were unable to pay for hotels for the city segment. And those of us with institutional backing, or with personal funds to spare, pooled our money for allocation on the basis of need. To the extent possible, the event attempted to acti-
vate alter-economies based on mutual aid.