set aside for the concept work assemblies involving close collective readings of a selection of philosophical texts, using a variety of techniques including what has become the SenseLab’s signature technique of conceptual speed dating (as discussed previously). Afternoons were focused on affi group work sessions on site-conditioned projects bringing something of the forest surroundings or camp environment to creative expression, always with a view to their added potential for generating transductive bridges between Mekoos and Montreal.
The largest and most visible proposition was the construction of a work “for the forest” that came to be called The Mi(d)st: a 100-meter length of repurposed mosquito netting that was painstakingly stretched across an arm of the lake on the far end from camp. The Mi(d)st grew from a stray comment from one participant about the captivating ephemerality of the morning and evening mist that rose from the lake, crossed with a platform for relation donated by Nathaniel Stern, who offered his rope-based “Sen- timental Construction” concept to the group as a proposition for collec- tive improvisation.7 The Mi(d)st “caught” the captivating mist in its net. It also refl	its own form in the water, creating a play across surfaces that visually expressed the interpenetration of processes the event sought to produce on other levels. Alan Prohm also gifted a proposition for group reappropriation growing from his “loom” projects, which are similarly rope based. The Tubular Loom is strung, not unlike a spider web for people, between site-specifi structures (in our case, two trees). Once mounted, it serves as an invitation to ungrounded movement as participants run, crawl, or sidle through it, experiencing altered proprioceptive states.
Many other propositions were generated on site from affi group activities. Some took an installation form; others were processual unfold- ings exploring “diagrammatic” relations. Projects spawned other projects, including a sound and image performance for/on the lake that saw itself as a prolongation of The Mi(d)st by other means. One affi  group made it their task to “tend” the process in its globality, insinuating themselves into other affi  groups’ interactions in subtle ways intended to help leaven their creative initiatives, perhaps without the benefi	of this proces- sual intercession even being aware of it. Unfortunately, the space is lacking here to go into the full richness of these explorations.8
As our time in the forest was drawing to a close, so too was the Technol- ogies of Lived Abstraction event series. Generating the Impossible was meant to be the fi       event in the series. The SenseLab has never differentiated itself