next event this one seeded, as well as the creative partnerships formed through SenseLab participation spinning off into extra-SenseLab collabo- rations. Success for the SenseLab is centrifugal: the seeding of processual spin-offs. The truest measure of the SenseLab’s success are successes for which it cannot claim credit.
The ethos of tending and tentativeness moved with us when we departed Mekoos for Montreal. By now, a strong sense of concern for the event had developed. With it came a panoply of germinating propositions for the city segment. As with earlier SenseLab events, a mode of decision making had set itself in motion that was not based on a central authority or representational delegation, nor on what is commonly considered the only alternative to these: consensus. Decisions were self-making, based on the singular force of each proposition. Anything that seemed worth trying—in other words, anything with suffi	processual allure—would tend to be explored. Yet only the strongest (most collectively potentiating) of the many seeded initiatives would carry themselves into action, on their own self-expressive steam. This autonomizing of decision rarely caused friction: there is no end to potential ideas, and those not explored during Generating the Impossible were understood as seeds storing potential for future events that might germinate elsewhere at another time. It was this autonomizing of decision that carried through the next event, Into the Midst.
An endeavor is at its most inventive when decision making works as a cut in a process that enables new forms of collectivity to emerge in a next unfolding phase. For this to work well it is necessary that actions embody a “concern for the event,” and that an atmosphere and ethos has been generated that sustains that concern. Much work must go into enabling the event to do its own work, such that it is the global momentum of the event itself that is followed and fed. This momentum may at times chan- nel through an act or decision of a particular individual or subgroup. But it is not owned by them. It channels through them, such that no one in particular can take ultimate credit for anything that happens. In the end, it is only the event that is a credit to itself.