the form of choreographic explorations of the city’s movements. A sub- group set about working on an urban iteration of the Mekoos-made version of the tubular loom, re-sited to a vacant lot. Another scouted locations to set up urban reemplacements of The Mi(d)st.
On our fi	evening back, The Mi(d)st was restrung in Saint-Viateur Park in Outremont across a small moat separating the perimeter of the park from an island pavilion at its center. A security guard cooperatively turned a blind eye while the netting was installed and then came back later to “discover” the deed and fulfi  his duty to uphold city permit regulations. The next day, we decided to hang it in a less patrolled location: the back alley between two streets in Outremont. This was made possible by the fact that two of us lived on the same alley and so we could string the lengthy work from one third-fl	balcony to another. A number of participants spent the afternoon stringing. A few remained to gauge reactions while others went off to participate in other evening activities, including a tie-in event hosted by Artivistic, a sister organization of the SenseLab. The plan was to meet back at the alley to celebrate the hanging of the work. Before we met back, however, word was sent out by the members of the group tending the work that a number of police cars had swooped into the alley and surrounded The Mi(d)st while a large group of Hasidic Jews from the surrounding neighborhood looked on, concerned because they had been wrongly blamed for the offense. It turned out that the police had received calls from certain people living in houses that backed onto that alley who were enraged by what they took to be a religious takeover of secular space. They had fantasized the humble Mekoos mosquito netting into an eruv: a structure used to symbolically transform a segment of the public domain into an extension of the private domain, thus enabling Orthodox Jews who strictly observe the dictates of Shabbat to move more freely on that day. Certain Montreal Hasidic communities practice a minimalist version of the eruv consisting of wires strung so high between buildings as to be all but invisible, in an attempt to avoid friction with defenders of Quebec’s deeply ingrained secular order (not to mention its historically ingrained anti-Semitic elements, present as a small but vocal minority in Outremont). The Mi(d)st was mistaken for an imperialist act on the part of the Hasidic community aimed at widening their religious kingdom to include this non- descript alley. This hateful misunderstanding reminded us that a “trans- duction” is site-conditioned on both sides. The results can never be fully anticipated. Whatever is crystallized comes from a set of tensions or forces