of the free radical had ostensibly proliferated in its anonymous enthu- siasm to play its assigned role of “breaking down emergent attunement after it has just emerged, but before it can stabilize into a self-sustaining harmony that might assert itself as a model.” From the very outset, then, the fi of the free radical spontaneously took off from Paul’s (or is it FRank’s or Frank’s?) embodiment of it, all the better to work as a transver- sal force for unsettling the collective attunement in the making, preventing it from institutionalizing into a self-perpetuating structure.
This trickstering of the trickster fi made the free radical a looming, unidentifi presence. Since no one knew who or how many it was, its interventions were not necessarily discernible. This meant that at each stage of the event we were obliged to be on the lookout for occurrences that might be laid to free-radical intercession. How the free radical might be operative in the alter-economy we were creating was an ongoing, open question. Through its perhaps spectral multiplication, the free radical came to embody the event’s outside. It became the ubiquitous fi  of an inter- vening outside force of unsettlement that could not be defi	pinned on any one individual or identifi group of individuals within the larger group. This apparition of the outside among us worked to remind us that there was no absolute “inside” to the event. Its own transductive fi     was of the inside folding out, from Mekoos to the city and beyond.
The SenseLab does not exist “as such.” It is not an organization. It is not an institution. It is not a collective identity. It is an event-generating machine, a processual fi of research-creation whose mission is to inside itself out. Its job is to generate outside prolongations of its activity that rip- ple into distant pools of potential. Ripple-effect: one idea becomes a seed for organization, which becomes a proposition for a concept, which becomes a problem for art, for politics, for philosophy, that may, if the conditions are ripe, resolve itself into the triggering of an event of collective experi- mentation and creative expression. This event potential is (dis)embodied in the trickstered-trickster fi     of the free radical, gone spectral. When the conditions have been right and the event has been generated, it has always come into itself in a relation with its radical outside—which it par- adoxically generates fl with its own occurring, also immediately in rela- tion to distant events beyond itself.