particular turning point in its playing out. For “prehension” as an “uncognitive” taking account, see Whitehead (1967b, 69–70).
8. We develop the notion of “cross-checking” from William James’s “ambula- tory” theory of truth, according to which “truth” is less a self-founding abstraction than an implicit recipe for fi	the way back again to a specifi “terminus” that can be shared by different bodies, who may seal their sharing of this reaccess poten- tial with a demonstrative pointing-to acknowledged by all. See the development of the example of the walk to Union Hall upon which the argument of “A World of Pure Experience” revolves in Essays in Radical Empiricism (James 1996, 39–90). See also the “The Thing and Its Relations” in the same volume (92–122) and Pragmatism and the Meaning of Truth (James 1978), passim.
9. It is important to specify that there is no homogeneity of “autism.” We do not want to suggest that all autistics are joined in their perspective on the condition. Certainly being autistic is a signifi challenge in the multisensorial, fast-paced culture we fi in most parts of the world today. The point we wish to make is that autism is also a gift—perceptually, experientially, intellectually. We challenge those all along the spectrum of neurodiversity—especially those toward the neurotypical end of the spectrum—to meet difference at least halfway.
10. On all these points, see Manning’s Always More Than One (2013), in which she extensively develops the concept of “autistic perception.”
11. The slogan is from a T-shirt created by the Autistic Liberation Front, quoted in Saner (2007).
12. The term “entrainment” is adapted from Albert Michotte, who uses the con- cept of “entraining effect” in his analysis of the direct perception of causal relation (1991, 149–215). We also mean it as a reference to Whitehead’s own concept for the direct perception of causal relation, which he terms “causal effi	.” Causal effi refers to the sense that experience is “heavy with the contact of things gone by [refer- ring to the immediate past, on the order of fractions of a second], which lay their grip on our immediate selves.” In its purest form, it is “vague, haunting, unmanageable.” In our reading, this sense of “unseen effective presences in the dark” is a limiting case, because causal effi	as a mode of existence is “essentially referent” to other modes (see note 10), in particular the mode of “presentational immediacy.” Presen- tational immediacy is the “vivid enjoyment” of immediate sense experience. By our interpretation of these concepts, causal effi	and presentational immediacy are in all but extreme cases present in effective mixture (Whitehead calls it “fusion”), or their mutual “taking account” of each other. Their fusion yields a variety of mixed modes, one of which is what we normally think of as object perception. We are assert- ing here that there is another mode that we are calling “environmental.” Whitehead
156