pathologized and ‘corrected’ but, rather, celebrated as a kind of natural, human dif- ference. The condition affords, especially at the so-called ‘low-functioning’ end of the spectrum, with those who have been taught to read and to communicate, a range of gifts. One of these gifts is poetic perception and writing. For decades it has been assumed that Autistics are the victims of an obdurate literality, which leaves them baffl    by fi	language. While this may be the case with ‘high-functioning’ Autistics or those with Asperger syndrome, it is not with classical Autistics, who have begun to demonstrate extraordinary competence. [. . .] Only recently have some of these Autistics been exposed to creative writing instruction, and the results have been nothing short of spectacular” (2010). See also Savarese 2008. For work by autistics mentioned here as well as others in the Disability Studies community, see the spe- cial issue on autism in Disability Studies Quarterly 30, no. 1 (2010).
16. The problem of refl	consciousness is directly connected, for autistics, to the disconnect between voluntary and automatic movement—a disconnect associ- ated with the diffi they experience with the activation of a task. Amanda Baggs writes, “I have known for a long time that my relationship to voluntary movement is not the same as my relationship to automatic movements, that there is in fact quite a large difference between the two, and that I process automatic movements as ‘background’ but don’t process voluntary movements that way. And that most movements for me are not automatic, but require fi	the body part and mak- ing it move around for me in a fairly laborious way” (2010b).
17. For a thought-provoking interview on being on the spectrum (from which the quote in the text is drawn), see Corwin (2008).
18. For more on phenomenology in contrast to process philosophy, see “Won- dering the World Directly,” Manning (forthcoming a).
19. Our use in this section of “physical pole” and “perceptual pole” should not be confused with Whitehead’s distinction between the “physical” and “mental” poles, to which he gives a particular meaning free of the cognitive presuppositions involved in the physical/percept distinction as it functions on the derivative level of refl	consciousness.
20. For a critique of neural correlates and a theory of brain function compatible with process philosophy as we understand it, see Ruyer (1950).
21. For Henri Bergson, consciousness arises when automatic action-reaction cir- cuits are interrupted. The mechanism of consciousness is to inhibit or slow down auto- maticity. The interruptive gap between action and reaction is fi with tendencies (germinal “forms of process,” as in note 10) vying for actualization. It is their vying that we experience as “our” thinking. This germinal activity of forms of process striv- ing for expression brinks into consciousness, but in its fi    stirrings, in the fullness
158