networks, and fi optic and satellite broadband communications. There is a recog- nized strength in the areas of intelligent control systems, very large scale integrated systems, hardware verifi	pattern recognition, game development, and bioin- formatics. Areas of research intensifi	include computer security, signal pro- cessing, speech signal processing, artifi intelligence, natural language processing, semantic web applications, interactive media, and identifi	technologies.”
3. The Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC) of Canada ran a pilot program starting in March 2003 titled “Research-Creation Grants in Fine Arts.” The program was made permanent starting in 2010–11. The corresponding pro- gram at Quebec’s provincial level, administered by the Fonds Québecois de Recher- che sur la Société et la Culture (FQRSC), is still in operation.
4. Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, “Research-Creation Grants in Fine Arts,” http://www.sshrc.ca/funding-fi	programmes/ fi	arts_lettres-eng.aspx. For a discussion of the history of research-creation in Canada and an analysis of the concept, see Chapman and Sawchuk (2012).
5. This took the form of the adoption of a research model imported from the social sciences. The social science research model was prioritized from the outset: “The research must address clear research questions, offer theoretical contextualiza- tion within the relevant fi or fi of literary/artistic inquiry, and present a well- considered methodological approach. Both the research and the resulting literary/ artistic works must meet peer standards of excellence and be suitable for publication, public performance or viewing” (ibid.). This is not to say that the current toward new media arts wasn’t already active in Montreal. Institutions like the Society for Arts and Technology have always felt a deep kinship with the notion of research-creation, supporting interdisciplinary and intercommunity work. They are themselves infl - enced by the Dutch “V2: Institute for Unstable Media,” an arts center dedicated to research-creation in new media arts for both on-site exploration and publication. See Brouwer, Fauconnier, Mulder, and Nigten (2005) and the award-winning Inter- act or Die! (Brouwer and Mulder 2007).
6. See http://hexagram.concordia.ca, http://www.hexagram.uqam.ca, and http://hexagramciam.org.
7. In 2010, a group of researchers in the fi arts convened to discuss new ethics regulations requiring fi arts faculty members and students to seek ethics approval for all work that includes participation. The curtailing of artistic freedom by the bureaucracy of an ethics approval process is a further instance of art moving toward a model of the social or hard sciences. For more on the “Ethics and Research- Creation Study Day,” see Herland (2010). As Lynn Hughes, cofounder of Hexagram, artist, and associate dean, remarked, “The question is how to have an ethical practice
163