Farrell (Australia), Barb Fornssler (Canada), Jonas Fritsch (Denmark), Paul Gazzola (Australia), Diego Gil (Netherlands), Andrew Goodman (Australia), Saara Hannula (Finland), Sophie Le-Phat Ho (Quebec), Mike Hornblow (New Zealand), Annette Svaneklink Jakobsen (Denmark), Mazi Javidiani (Quebec), Thomas Jellis (United Kingdom), Jondi Keane (Australia), Erin Manning (Quebec), Brian Massumi (Que- bec), Kevin Mitchell (Canada), Mayra Morales (Mexico), Lincoln Mudd (United States), Mahasti Mudd (United States), Andrew Murphie (Australia), Andreia Oliveira (Brazil), Raphael Ng (Singapore), Toni Pape (Quebec), Leslie Plumb (Quebec), Vir- ginia Preston (United States), Alan Prohm (Finland/Germany), Jean-François Prost (Quebec), Ana Ramos (Quebec), Stellaluna Ramos (Quebec), Alessandra Renzi (Can- ada), Troy Rhoades (Quebec), Nicole Ridgway (United States), Nonie Ridgway Stern (United States), Felix Rebolledo (Quebec), Ronald Rose-Antoinette (France), Bianca Scliar (Brazil), Ron Simon (Quebec), Stephanie Springgay (Canada), Nathaniel Stern (United States), Bodil Marie Thomsen (Denmark), Sean Smith (Canada), and Alanna Thain (Quebec). Mary Zournazi (Australia), Michael Goddard (United Kingdom), and Celine Sumic (New Zealand) participated in the preparations but were unable join us for the event itself.
4. This is sometimes called a white elephant gift exchange.
5. Participants were solicited using the call reproduced at the end of Propositions for Thought in the Act. The cutoff was nine months before the start of the actual event, to leave adequate time for preparatory activities. A few participants who contacted us late in the process were put on a waiting list and later admitted to the event. We wanted the event to be as inclusive as possible, and worked to keep possibilities open for anyone expressing a serious interest.
6. All the food for the SenseLab events has come from the Fruiterie Mile-End, a family-owned Montreal landmark. In the spirit of the gift, the Fruiterie has always charged us wholesale prices and provided us with older produce free of charge. We consider the neighborhood ethos provided by the Fruiterie (and by its owner, Javed “Bob” Iqbal, in particular) as very much in keeping with what the SenseLab’s attempts to achieve through its event series.
7. http://senselab.ca/wp2/events/into-the-midst.
8. For additional (but by no means complete) documentation, see http:// senselab.ca/wp2/events/generating-the-impossible-2011/.
9. For more on the issue of decision making and self-organizing in the Into the Midst event, see “Dancing the Constraint” (Manning forthcoming b).