have mindblindness, Baron-Cohen suggests, is to lack empathy. It is to be generally unrelational. He says that this is what defi     autistics (1995).3
Yet from the autistic, we hear neither a rejection of the human, nor a turning away from relation. What we hear is an engagement with the more-than human: “I attend to everything the same way with no discrim- ination, so that the caw of the crow in the tree is as clear and important as the voice of the person I’m walking with” (Krumins in Miller 2003, 86). And an engagement with a more textured relating: “My world is organized around textures. [. . .] All emotions, perceptions, my whole world [. . .] [has] been infl	by textures” (Krumins in Miller 2003, 87).
To experience the texture of the world “without discrimination” is not indifference. Texture is patterned, full of contrast and movement, gradients and transitions. It is complex and differentiated. To attend to everything “the same way” is not an inattention to life. It is to pay equal attention to the full range of life’s texturing complexity, with an entranced and unhier- archized commitment to the way in which the organic and the inorganic, color, sound, smell, and rhythm, perception and emotion, intensely inter- weave into the “aroundness” of a textured world, alive with difference.4 It is to experience the fullness of a dance of attention.5 For all the challenges of autism, this is not without joy.
“Everything [is] somewhat alive to me” (Krumins in Miller 2003, 86). “Happiness to me was the immediateness of the environment” (Muk-
hopadhyay in Iversen 2006, 104).
A dance of attention is the holding pattern of an immersive, almost unidentifi       set of forces that modulate the event in the immediateness of its coming to expression. Attention not to, but with and toward, in and around. Undecomposably.
“All the time shadows had to borrow the colors of the objects on which they would fall,” writes autistic and poet Tito Mukhopadhyay. “And they colored all objects in one universal color. That color is the color of a shadow, which is a darker color on the borrowed color” (2008, 21). A colored shad- owing: an intertwining of fi       of emergent experience not yet defi
as this or that.6 Not defi   as this or that, yet their qualities already inter- act. The fi    in their immediacy, play off each other, lending their qual- ities to each other, composing a single fi  of mutual action, of co-fusion and changing contrast: co-motion. An immediate commotion of qualita- tive texturing. A generative holding pattern already moving qualitatively
5