toward an experience in the making. Colored shadow has emerged: a qual- ity belonging to the compositional fi Not to its elements, but to the immediacy of their mutual action.
The emergence continues. “I could now imagine how a shadow could silence the interaction between other colors if those colors happened to fall in the territory of its silence.” A hiatus forms in the commotion, made of the same interacting qualities as the commotion. “I could see the night jasmines wet with morning dew, lit with fresh sunshine, trying to form a story with their jasmine-petal smell. I would see the story spread in the air” (Mukhopadhyay 2008, 21–22). A new quality, a fragrance, arrives in the hiatus. A fl	dances to attention as the event of this ingression. Jasmine gathers the play of color and shadow around itself, transmuted into an interplay of moisture and light. Light and moisture, in co-motion with a smell. The fragrance of jasmine, in its interplay with moisture and light, takes the relay from colored shadow as the predominant quality of the compositional fi    as a whole. This relay brings the fi    to the verge of determinate expression. In the fi    s perfusion by smell, a story is trying to form. The fi is moving through its perfusion toward a recounting of itself. It is striving to be taken into account.7 The fl has appeared as a function of this striving. It is not a discrete object. The fi of immediate experience is not composed of objects. The fl      is the relational conduit for a field-wide tendency to expression. It might be called an objectile rather than a fully bloomed object: a bud of an object. The fi    composes buds of objects as a function of its appetition for expression.
The dance of attention evoked here by Mukhopadhyay is the attentive- ness in the environment of an expressibility tending toward a determinate expression yet to come. Caught in the middling of this event, Mukhopad- hyay is not the maker of the scene. He attends to its dance, co-composing with it. “I would see that the moment I put my shadow above the fl - ers, the story would immediately stop forming” (2008, 22). The moment he overshadows the fi imposing his presence on it, its activity stops. Mukhopadhyay must remain co-present. Flower, shadow, story field-dance to attention, in an indetermination of a coming to be determined, at the very boundary between experiencing and imagining, in the moment, yet untold.
“My boundary between imagining and experiencing something was a very delicate one. Perhaps it still is. So many times I still need to cross-check
6