with Mother, or someone who can understand my voice now, whether an incident really happened around my body or presence” (Mukhopad- hyay 2008, 22). Presence with, in, and around a budding fi    becoming, in patient attentiveness toward what the fi wants. Uncertainty in the aroundness: where does the body begin and end? Where is the relay between imagination and experience? The coming to further expression of the fi    in conversation, for cross-checking, moves the center of gravity of the experience into another fi that of language. But this is poetic lan- guage, not strictly fact seeking—a language for story, a language that holds onto the tensile oscillation of imagining and experiencing, that composes with the threshold of expressibility that was already active in the fi   tun- ing to expression where there is not yet either a fully bloomed object nor a fully fl	subject—only the intensely experiencing-imagining bud of a qualitative becoming toward making sense in language.
A dance of attention is not attentiveness of the human to the environ- ment but attentiveness of the environment to its own fl	at the very limit where experience and imagination, immediacy and cross-checking, overlap.8 The making-felt of a co-compositional force that does not yet seek to distinguish between human and nonhuman, subject and object, emphasizing instead an immediacy of mutual action, an associated milieu of their emergent relation.
This co-compositional engagement with the associated milieu of emer- gent relation is an environmental mode of awareness. It is a mode of exis- tence integral, for autistics, to all aspects of experience. They do not bemoan this modality of awareness as a defi but affi it as a mode of existence intertwined tendentially with other modes of existence, such as those (more “human” by the neurotypical defi	that are centered on language.9
Autism activist Jim Sinclair writes, “Autism isn’t something a person has, or a ‘shell’ that a person is trapped inside. There’s no normal child hidden behind the autism. Autism is a way of being. It is pervasive; it colors every experience, every sensation, perception, thought, emotion, and encounter, every aspect of existence. It is not possible to separate the autism from the person—and if it were possible, the person you’d have left would not be the same person you started with” (1993). Persons come in many modes. And persons become.
Autistic perception dances attention, affi	the interconnected- ness of modes of existence, foregrounding the relationality at the heart
7