environment that dynamically appears in a jointness of experience. This foregrounding of the immediate fi of experience we call entertainment.13 Entertainment is prior to the distinction between active and passive, sub- ject and object.
Entertainment is captivation in a dance of attention. All experiential fi	includes incipient entrainments and immediate entertainments. It is a question of degree, and of mixture. The call to smell a fl upon seeing it—the welling sense that a fl       is for something, for smelling—is a neurotypical response that is already moving toward grasping the fl
as an object against the environment as a background, even as the envi- ronment is just coming to entertainment. For the neurotypical, the mode of entertainment tends already to be saturated with entrainment. The field of experience is pre-perfused with for-ness. It is already tending toward expression in use-value—rather than entertaining expressibility on its own account. For the autistic, the fl and the environment, entrainment and entertainment, are not immediately separable. Flower and environment are not reciprocally delimited as foreground and background, separable object and surround, but feature jointly in co-activity. They co-feature as tonal differences in a fi  modulating the whole of experience at all lev- els, composing an overall mode of existence that is in a different key than the neurotypical norm.
“Modes of existence are always plural and relational,” writes Etienne Souriau: “existence can be found not only in beings, but between them” (2009, 16). Modes of existence are intermodal. As defi by Souriau and Gilbert Simondon (2005), modes of existence do not reify being by tak- ing it as already constituted. They involve comings-to-existence through singular events where objects are in the making. The modality of the events’ singular coming-to-be is the existence. There is not an already- constituted being that has the modality. The modality makes the being. Modes of existence are not only intermodal, they are also plural in rela- tion to themselves, each containing the others in germ, to a degree, as an internal difference that is a compositional feature of its own textur- ing.14 Each tends to want of the others. Modes of existence have an inbred appetite for each other, and cannot easily sustain themselves separately, try as they might sometimes.
The autism rights movement emphasizes the multiplicity of modes of existence, under the term “neurodiversity.”15 They are not only signaling the need to attend to the blooming of fi       of relation from which neither
9