as it happens. Wait, and the opening closes. Its perception and your mov- ing into it must be one. There is no time to refl  no time to focus, assess, and choose. If you focus on one body over another, you see one body then another—and not the opening in the fi of movement they share. You have to soften your focus, letting the fi     s changing confi	dilate to fi experience. You have to let what is normally your peripheral vision take over, attending to everything in the “same way.”
The experience is then all movement-texture, complexly patterned, full of change and transition, teemingly differentiated. You’re surfi the crowd even as the crowd is surfi  you. Despite the rush, this is not with- out joy. You revel in the fl	of your trajectory, without focusing on it as a feeling-tone separate from the movement. You have performed an integral dance of attention, seemingly without thinking.
But you were thinking, with your movement. Your every movement was a performed analysis of the fi	s composition from the angle of its affor- dance for getting-ahead. Entering the dance of attention, your perceiving converged with your moving activity, and your activity was your think- ing. You entered a mode of environmental awareness in which to perceive is to enact thought, and thought is directly relational. This actively rela- tional thinking is also an expression of the fi		but in a different mode than storytelling, poetic or not, with no immediate need for language, sat- isfying itself at a level with the body’s movements: expression a-bodying. In retrospect, it will likely appear to you that the predominant object singled out by your memory—the sidewalk—had been your affordance from the subway to the offi	In the offi	cluttered with entraining affordances—the computer for e-mailing, the phone for message check- ing, the chair for sitting—objects will be in focus again. But in the mode of environmental awareness that effectively got you to the offi	on time, it was not the object “sidewalk” that afforded the last leg of your com- mute. It was the fl	openings, now forgotten. The openings are long gone. The sidewalk remains. The stability of the sidewalk, its ability to re- feature in experience from moment to moment, is an enabling condition for the ephemerality of the openings. This is how what we single out as objects fi	for environmental awareness in the moment: as fused into a fi	of movement, their stability entering into that fi	on equal footing,
as one contrast in its complex relational patterning.
Perhaps the difference between the environmental awareness of the autistic and that of neurotypicals is that neurotypicals always fuse
11