pen in fact double features. It alternates between two roles. Grasp it from the angle of entrainment, from the angle of what it can do—“hold ink, mark paper, obey the guidance of the hand”—and it emerges as a stable physical object as opposed to being a percept. Humor it in the ephemeral- ity of its self-entertainment—in the way it “comes and goes,” self-relating, “continuous with subsequent experiences of its having been”—and the pen emerges as a percept. What we call the cognitive relation is in fact a pattern of the pen emerging alternately as physical or as percept, across dif- ferent moments. The pen can only do this double cognitive duty because “in the fi instance,” in the singularity of each and every moment’s come and go, it was an indeterminate fi     effect: a “bald that” (not yet a this or that). In this uncertainty of fi	consciousness is already dawning, but has not blossomed into a fully formed cognition. The pen, as White- head would say, is already cognizable, but not yet fi	cognized. It is as yet but a cognizable factor in fi experience. When the moment has penned itself into a determinate emergence, consciousness begins to fl       . It is holding “pen” and its use-value distinctly in the foreground, in a now object-centered experience. The fi is no longer saturated with entrain- ment, but is heavy with it, locally. The singled-out object “pen” bears all the weight of it. Field-wide entertainment, its integral relationality, has been backgrounded. But the foreground only stands out because it has a background to stand out from. Background and foreground are in mutual embrace, the backgrounded activity still vying for attention. Consciousness fl	with the tension between backgrounded environmental awareness and foregrounded cognition. Cognition is the impossibility of grasping the fi in all of its cognizable effects. This is what it means to be conscious “in” a pen, as opposed to be cognizant “of” it. It means to be conscious in a commotional becoming-penfi
In Mukhopadhyay’s case it is that the pen’s call—“Here I am! Here I am!”—remains interwoven with Jack’s laughter rather than distinctly taking the fore. “And within the same moment,” Mukhopadhyay con- tinues, “there may be a sudden sound of laughter that can dissolve the stories told by the refl	and the sullen silence of the chair’s shadow with its demanding noise, making you wonder which part of the funny story from Jack’s voice you missed listening to while you were watching the giant blades of the fan pushing out every story and sound away from it with air” (2008, 53). Instead of immediately tuning to what Whitehead calls cognition’s “small focal region of clear illumination,” the event here
16