It is no doubt easier to habitually cross into a room that itself habitually chunks into chairs and tables, than to begin with the whole-fi     pattern as yet unresolved into objects. Rather than chunking, what occurs on the autistic spectrum of neurodiversity is an immediate entertainment of modalities of relation. Pattern, an interplay of contrasts, comes before familiar use and describable chunking.
The neurotypical approach backgrounds this modulation of relational emphases by subtracting from the emergent environment that which is not immediately suited to its use. In the case of a dinner party, upon entering a foreign dining room, the neurotypical will likely align to the entrainments of chair-sittability and table-eatability before even fully not- ing the checkedness of the fi ld. In another context—painting the kitchen, for instance—chairness will shift automatically to laddering, upsetting any notion that entrainment is unvarying. What is unvarying about entrain- ment is that it is always emphasis-by-subtraction. In yet another context, say creating an art installation in the kitchen, the affordances of entrainment get backgrounded. Entertainment takes over, now with a richly textured relational emphasis co-involving fi effects of color, light and surface, pat- tern and contrast, the whole characterized by an overall fi quality of airiness or crampiness, convivial freshness or the staleness of familial con- striction. The fi of immediacy reappears for itself, in its own qualitative- relational terms. It will sort out one way or another, but in the moment there always will have been much more.
The “much more, always more” of Corwin’s entering a room sug- gests that the challenge for autism lies with the “less” of subtraction. The room is immediately experienced in its always-more, each chunk- ing an achievement, a new adventure in experience coming alive toward expression.
“I taught myself to read at three,” Amanda Baggs relates, “and I had to learn it again at ten, and yet again at seventeen, and at twenty-one, and at twenty-six. The words that it took me twelve years to fi have been lost again, and regained, and lost, and still have not come all the way back to where I can be reasonably confi they’ll be there when I need them. It wasn’t enough to fi    out just once how to keep track of my eyes and ears and hands and feet all at the same time; I’ve lost track of them and had to fi     them over and over again” (2010d).
19