Against neuroreductionism
The “neuro” is everywhere in the air today. Neuroarchitecture, neuroaes- thetics, neurocriticism. We have advanced the term “neurodiversity” here in order to problematize the “neuro” no less than the “typical.” Certain of today’s neurocurrents, those informed by embodied cognition and its younger offspring enactive perception, converge in some respects with the account developed here. We are uneasy, however, with the general excite- ment generated by recent advances in brain imaging technology, which have been met with another wave of the cyclic craze for fi	neural “correlates” of experiential events. The models, admittedly, are vastly more complex than earlier paradigms of localization, nuanced as they are with notions of systemic feedback, distributed networks, and emergent patterning of neural activity. In spite of these very real advances, the problem remains for us that the impulse to identify an experiential event with a brain state tends to take precedence, and is too often given the fi     and last word.
Approaches opposed to this cerebral reductionism, such as embodied cognition and enactive perception, often appeal to phenomenology in order to restore the experiential fi s fullness. For our part, we cannot follow this line, because for phenomenology the fi of immediate expe- rience is always-already subjective or, to be more precise, “pre-subjective” (in the sense of already imbued with specifi     human meaning just wait- ing to be “disclosed,” or translatable from the status of “implicit knowl- edge” into an explicit schema).18 For us, as for autistics, this isn’t the case. We approach the fi of experience as “pure,” in William James’s sense of being neither subjective nor objective yet—yet ready to be both or either, more and less, multiplicitously. Whatever human meaning an experience has, whatever schema it exhibits, it has achieved them, as an adventure of integrally renewed self-composition and emergent variation, starting always all over again from the “bald” commotional “that” of the gateway that is moment. This forbids appealing to phenomenology as a corrective to our discomfort with neuroreductionism.
From the perspective developed here, the notion of neural correlates— the idea that experiential events “correspond” to brain states—errs in pre- supposing the dichotomy between the determinately physical and the fi perceptual. In our account, following James and Whitehead, this dis- tinction takes form on the highly derived level of refl	consciousness,
20