which is itself predicated on the subtractive emergence of cognition from a richer and more encompassing fi   of coming experience. The search for neural correlates glosses over the immediacy of the fi   of experience, its phased becomings and variations, its fl	its constant reminders that the simplicity of clear consciousness is no measure of the complexity of complete experience. The search for neural correlates glosses over this intensity and complexity in theory, while in practice it constantly returns to it without acknowledging that move.
The surreptitious appeal by neuroscientists to the total fi  is a practi- cal necessity. A correlation between an experiential event and a brain state cannot be established without eliciting an experiential event from which a brain image can be extracted. Subjects are shown particular images, or inducted into certain kinds of activity, or induced into certain affective orientations. A mapping of brain activity is then extracted from the event by the imaging technology. The predominant experiential characteristics of the context from which the image has been extracted—a visual per- ception of a certain type, the execution of a particular category of act, an affective priming of a certain cast—is then set against the brain state. The brain state is construed as the physical/objective/bodily side of the event, and the predetermined experiential characteristics of the context are con- strued as the perceptual/subjective/phenomenal side. Nonetheless, how- ever the correlation is construed philosophically, it tends to be lopsided. The physical side tends to be treated as explanatory of the perceptual side. This reduces the perceptual/subjective/phenomenal to the status of an epiphenomenon. Even interpretations that tie the two sides together with a model of emergence cannot escape the explanatory lopsiding inherent in attributing epiphenomenal status to the phenomenal. The physical/ objective/bodily comes out as more “real.” Inherent to every “discovery” of a correlation there is a valorizing of the determinately physical pole, since the entire setup is designed precisely in order to extract this side of the event.19 The technology used is custom-made precisely for that. The whole exercise is angled toward the emphasis-by-subtraction of the phys- ical from the experimental context.
To put it another way, the laboratory setup always reenters its project of explanatory modeling through the gateway called moment. An event is triggered. However controlled the context, there are always minor ele- ments considered peripheral to the predominant type, category, or cast of the context to which the brain state will be correlated. The contribution
21