of these active ingredients to the total fi falls out. It is designed-out by the way in which the experimental setup is pre-oriented toward the articu- lation of a certain kind of result. This is no small thing, because among the ingredients designed-out as “negligible” are a whole panoply of relational- fi effects, which from the point of view of the environmental aware- ness we have been talking about are absolutely integral to the genesis of the event. The experimental procedure systematically subtracts them, in order to emphasize the contribution of the brain, to the extent that it can be reduced to the physical.20
We are not saying that this has no value. Our point is that the activity of neurons enters the event on an equal footing with other ingredients: from the angle of neurons’ ability to co-compose relational fi effects. Alone, they are nothing. Together with other ingredients, which are of every con- ceivable determinable nature, the neurons vie to have their “voice” heard most loudly in the way in which the event moves toward expression. Take me! Take me! The neuroscientist takes them happily—without realizing that it is when the neuronal as such is most determining of the outcome of the event that the event is operating at its most automatic.21 The “physical” is in fact a limit-state of the habitual, its extreme. Much goes into making a habit besides electrical impulses and chemical signals. A whole world of relationality enters into it, subtractively. The physical as automatic-habitual is a subtractive limitation of the dance of attention of the fi of experi- ence. Extracting it from the fi   is adding subtraction to subtraction, carry- ing the emphasis-by-subtraction of habit to a higher power. This is exactly what makes neurocentric modeling so useful therapeutically: it isolates the subtractive limit of the fi of experience’s functioning. At the limit of that limit lies the pathological: when the automaticity of the physical takes over to the point of undermining the use-value of habit on other levels of the relational world. The whole setup is contrived as a function of the patho- logical. That is our point: the neuro is inherently a therapeutic concept contrived with and for the pathological—which is to say that it is guided by an a priori commitment to a presupposed, quantifi base-state dis- tinction between the normal and the pathological. No matter what kind of philosophical calisthenics are performed around it, the neuro remains profoundly neurotypical.
There is no doubt that autistics’ brains are “wired” differently. There is the possibility that this difference may be “cured.” Our point is that while the neuro has therapeutic value, it only has explanatory value to
22