refrain
“It is certain that all bodies whatsoever, though they have no sense, yet they have perception . . . and whether a body be alterant or altered, ever- more a perception precedeth operation; for else all bodies would be alike to one another” (Francis Bacon in Whitehead 1967b, 68–69). Bodies what- soever, “a taking shape of surrounds” (AG 2002, 4). Bodies whatsoever in the any-space-whatever of landing, less a body as such than a bodying- forth. Bodyings forth as instants of existence, as organisms that person, as architectings of mobility. Bodies whatsoever because they “would be alike to one another.” Whatsoever because in excess, always, of this or that pre- constituted body: organisms that person take account, fi  forth, appor- tion out, bodies in the making.
“Any one instance of existence involves the notion of other existences, connected with it and yet beyond it” (Whitehead 1968, 7). Bodies in the making not as humans already existing but as perceptions on the cusp of environmentality, an ecological becoming. “This notion of the environ- ment introduces the notion of ‘more and less,’ and of multiplicity” (White- head 1968, 7). Prehending not as perceiving before the world, but as the push-pull of the withness of worlding.
Preoperation, a preacceleration agitating in potentia. Preoperation, how the many become one. “Perceptual landing sites occur always in sets—a fl      of birds fl      in formation” (AG 2002, 10). To land perceptually is to fi with in agitation, it is to become-body in a preoperation that subtracts for a tending that apportions out. Organisms-that-person agitate in the mix, but always in a withness of environment: a becoming ecology of practices.
Whatsoever activity, bare activity: “A perspective of the universe.” Pre- hension as a fi	of the milieu in its unfolding, resolving into an occa- sion, the occasion conditioned by an affording for or a being taken account of. A perspective of the universe is a lure. “The world always gets in our way as still more world” (AG 2002, xii). An alluring moreness. Emergence
29