in the milieu of the between, an architectural surround is a conjoint trans- formation, a relational dynamic. “Her fi	of her surroundings never ceases, continuing even in sleep” (AG 2002, 7). A dance of attention of the bare activity of becomings coalescing into a coming event. Preoperation in an “underlying activity of realization individualizing itself” (Whitehead 1967b, 70). Organism that persons not as a human body so much as a push that pulls across matters of fact. “Each instant is only a way of grouping matters of fact” (Whitehead 1968, 146). Each instant, a landing site for a taking place. Each taking place a prehensive interlocking of reciprocal modes. Matter of fact: the thisness of takings place, the thisness of archi- tecting that world.
Thisness: a fl	A quality of experience that folds the many in the one, an interfusing of agency and patience, indissolubly alterant-altering. “A tentative constructing toward a holding in place,” not of the one, but of the polyphony of potential: Do not presume to know concretely where the person who makes architectural-body sense lies. She lies in her poten- tial. A fl	toward concrescence: the many in the one.
Tweaked toward “the what happens next? of life” (AG 2002, 42–43), con- crescence is a taking of subjective form. Its forces converge into a thisness of experience that immediately interfuses with events in the making. To be is to be had in a fl “The organism-that-persons drags its whole world along as a pull-toy” (AG 2002, 3). Organism that persons: “a local agitation that shakes the whole universe” (Whitehead 1968, 133). A populated fi
of alterant-altering interfusion.
An organism-that-persons: a perspective, a populated fi of alterant- altering interfusion that lands sometimes narrowly, sometimes widely. “Feeling is the agent which reduces the universe to its perspective for fact. Apart from gradations of feeling, the infi	of detail produces an infi	of effect in the constitution of each fact” (Whitehead 1968, 10). Feeling, a perspective of the universe, a taking, a yielding; a fi	a backgrounding. Feeling, how perspective concresces. Feeling, how impor- tance fi   Feeling, the germ of expression where the many become one and are increased by one (Whitehead 1978, 21).
“Importance passes from the World as one to the World as many” (Whitehead 1968, 20). Importance, a taking-shape of surrounds that activates the thisness of life in the making, push-pulling into resonance the agitations of potential. Importance, how “perspective is imposed upon
30