somehow, seashore
Two dancers. She comes from the left, at the back of the stage, dancing a circular movement, her gestures roll, repetitive, a mewling of a sea gull ema- nating from the movement. Movement rolling, returning, ending where it rebegins, wrapping around a vocalization.
He comes from the right, stands at the microphone and pauses, allow- ing her movement to settle into its never-ending rebeginning. And then he speaks: somehow . . . music. The space fi with an undulating sound wall, catching the mewling of the sea gull in its rising. somehow, he words, somehow seashore. At words’ end, a movement cuts in. He gestures to the left, in the direction of the mewling, musically enwrapped. somehow,  somehow,  collectively   beginning,   collecting,   fall- ing. somehow  suspended  in  midair. Just like  that. He gestures again. Just like this. He falls, tumbling into the recesses of the rising sound space.2
Somehow . . . music. Forsythe Company composer Thom Willems has created a sound surround. As Forsythe says, Willems gives the performers an “acoustic space to dance” (Forsythe 2003a). The undulating of the music is the space of the movement. The piece takes place in this rhythmic space, more so than on the stage. The stage is just the launching pad. Everything that will be seen, heard, sounded, spoken, gestured, and evoked will collect in the rhythmic milieu hovering above, wrapping around.3 Everything will belong to it, everything will collect in it, swaddled together in its undu- lations. For everything has rhythm, and rhythms have a way of coming together. They resonate and accrue. Twists and turns and turns of phrase, infl	of movement and of language, will assemble and accrete, to compose this piece. Just like that.
From the fi    moment, a space of mutual envelopment is set in place. It would be more precise to say that a milieu of mutual envelopment is activated. It takes, it is set, set alight. The set itself, the literal stage space and the things it holds—bodies, costumes, microphones—are but the kin- dling. The activation is between registers. It is set acoustically as well as linguistically, as speakingly as movingly, as much in sound effect as in the vocalization of words, in gesture as in intonation. What is activated envel- ops the difference between these registers, as well as between the events occurring on each, folding into rhythm. Waves collect. overbalance. and fall, he words.
33