dancers have joined the company and are being inducted into its move- ment generation techniques. They likely already know the answer to the question, as would anyone familiar with Forsythe’s dance vocabulary and practice: it “starts from any point” . . . and stops at any other (Caspersen 2011, 94; Caspersen 2000, 33; Forsythe 2012).
This sounds like a nonanswer of indifference: whatever . . . (to phrase it like a teenager again). But when it is added that “any point within each piece contains the essence of the whole” (Caspersen 2011, 94), it becomes apparent that far from being indifferent, any-point is a most singular point. In movement alone, in its own order, uncontrasted with language, any point is already overfull. The overfullness of movement with itself, on its own plane, Forsythe says, must be felt for movement to be made.
“Once you stretch one limb,” Forsythe remarks, “all kinds of other places stretch and retract” (Forsythe 2011, Nov. 10). Stretch it again in a different way, and the stretches and retractions shift. Every part of the body is a knot of different potential stretches and retractions radiating from that point as “so many vectors” (Forsythe 2011, Nov. 10). So many lines of movement, potentially passing through each point. Each starting point of movement holds these potential passings through in itself, together in their difference from each other. The move is less a point than a vectorial gestural nexus: a differential, dynamic knot of potential variations on itself. A milieu of movement potential synthetically including an infi        of disjunctions.
The dancers are instructed to “take the movement as far as it will go” (Forsythe 2011, Nov. 10). But if you are attentive to where it is going, you feel it move in more than one direction. When the arm is stretching into a curve, the hip has already joined in throwing the curve. When the arm has fi	moving, the hip is still going. Its movement radiates down into a fl	of the leg. A single movement comprises a differential “spray” (Forsythe 2003a) of movement lines akimbo, now beginning now end- ing, in the moment differently together. The “any-point” where a move- ment starts and stops is actually a spray, a splay, a spread: a point-fi . It doesn’t start at any point. Movement is not simply localizable in space.5
If the point-fi	of movement is nonlocalizable, when a dancer seeks to generate a movement it is not enough to get into position. Position is the gateway to movement. But it is not of its order. Position is of the fi spatial order. Movement’s order is of the always dynamically passing. “A move,” Forsythe reminds his dancers, “is not so possessed of a place that
36