you can’t fi another.” “Keep in touch with the motion. Give up your position” (Forsythe 2011, Nov. 8).
The question of dance is: “What is it about a position that made it motion?” (Forsythe 2011, Nov. 10). Answer: the dynamic knot. The differ- ential gestural nexus. Feel the spray, fi the nexus, form the movement out of the feeling. Keep in touch with the forming motion, “chain the sensations rather than the positions” (Forsythe 2011, Nov. 10). Giving up your position and getting in touch with the forming feeling of the motion triggers what Forsythe calls an “activation”: the fi   throws a curve amid a spray (Forsythe 2011, Nov. 10). Movement’s order is an ordering of for- mative feeling activation. Making movement concerns this fi	from the middle, in the gestural milieu, more fundamentally than any notion of form in the completed sense.
This answer to the question “what is it about a position that makes it a motion?” raises another question. What do we see of what makes a motion? What is predominantly seen is indeed a line of movement: the arm describes a curve. But this visible form of the movement is only a cer- tain salience of the fi of motion. It is but the striking, to the eye, of a dominant vector. Form is a simplifi	of the fi occurring between registers, fl	up from their difference to each other. The visible form of a gesture is a distancing of movement from itself. A movement seen is a visual effect of movement’s envelopment in a larger differential fi
of different orders, different registers of experience, different keys of life, rhythmically rolled into the moment, in their difference from each other. Movement in itself, as itself, can only be felt.
The task of the dancer on performance night is to make visible what can only be felt. To make visible what can only be felt is not the same as performing a move. It is not to imitate or reproduce a movement form. “Things happen, but are not performed,” Forsythe warns his dancers. “You don’t want to perform your work.” “Do it without portraying” (Forsythe 2011, Nov. 10). You do it without displaying. You don’t perform it in that sense. You just, like, enter into the sensation. Field the point, chain the sensations, and the audience also will feel the movement’s making, in the fl form of its visual effect. They will eye your differential gestural nexus at a distance. The activation of your point-fi will activate the optical spray of their fi   of vision (what James Gibson calls the opti- cal array; 1986). Dynamically, the visual activation will be analogous in its dynamic contours to the movement spray. They will share the same
37