To the extent that it unfolds from a recognition according to a logic, a sensorimotor habit is a kind of thought in action automatically exe- cuted, below the threshold of conscious awareness. But action is of a dif- ferent order than movement as such, as in dance. What defi    action, as opposed to movement, is that its execution is swaddled less immedi- ately in rhythm, than it is mediated by preestablished meaning. In habit, the body moves into what today’s situation has recognizably in common with yesterday’s, and what this sameness in the situation means for the stomach. A sensorimotor habit is a general idea of the body. The mean- ing is always adaptive: this repeated sequence fi the general situation, as it did before and will again.
The general idea of these habitual sensorimotor sequences is what embodied cognition and enactive perception theory (and earlier, Gestalt) have called “body schemas.” Body schemas are explained in terms of “implicit knowledge.” These theories typically appeal to the implicit knowl- edge of body schemas to account for the thought-like aspect of action. Body schemas are presented as the thinking of the body, in the body. What is “embodied” are the schemas. What is “enacted” is the general meaning of the adaptive situation. Maxine Sheets-Johnstone rightly observes that, far from grasping the manner of thinking incumbent in bodily movement as such, the concept of body schema implicitly construes what occurs, thought-like, at the heart of movement, moving on its own level, in its own register, as mental (why else call it embodied cognition?).9 What other conceivable status could the element of general meaning have but men- tal? Generality has nowhere else to be but in a “mind.” The mental status of the body schema is confi	by the fact that sequencing can be ade- quately expressed in logical form: if–then. It has the status of a syllogism. The syllogistic premise is the general meaning of the situation implicitly recognized in the triggering of the sequence.10 That general meaning could just as well have been expressed in language as in movement. Language does syllogism to a T, as the body does it on habitual cue. The concept of body schema brings language and movement together not in their dynamic differing, but in what they generally have in common, of a mental status. Approaches relying on the concepts of body schema and implicit knowl- edge fail in their attempted anti-Cartesianism. The body’s dynamism is implicitly returned to a dependency on a core mentality that can be ade- quately expressed in logical form and is in the element of general meaning shared by language. The singularity of movement’s moving is unwittingly
39