retrofi    into an implicit opposition between the mental and the phys- ical, mind and body. The only way to avoid this dichotomizing refi the only way to restore movement to the gestural nexus that is its native ele- ment, the only way to respect the dynamic spray of movement in and of itself—as well as in its form-fl	splay between other planes of experi- ence—is to say that movement embodies nothing but itself. Movement never embodies anything. It just bodies-forth, at any-point. Embodiment is the wrong concept.11 Just “bodying” is better. Movement goes a-bodying.
Where the bodying is a thinking in movement, most intensely and alive, is in movement extracted from action in this sensorimotor sense. “Subtract” the action, Forsythe tells his dancers (2011, Nov. 17). “We start out with a process and try to collapse it,” he continues (2011, Nov. 23). Collapse movement back into itself. Subtract the general meaning from it. Undo it of its preestablished adaptations. Return it to its gestural nexus. Give it a more complex logic. Point-fi	it. Don’t chain positions, chain sensa- tions. Return the making of movement to the immediacy of its feeling. In that feeling, a different, more intense, utterly singular thinking will occur. Where the body is most immediately thinking-movement is not in the unfolding of body schema. It is in its folding back into itself, back into the dynamic nexus of its native gestural element. Not unfolding, but infold- ing. A turning back around onto itself to begin again, never taking leave of itself, never ending. A turning, a twisting, in: infl	Movement returns to itself in its each and every infl		With every twist, it contracts back into its own element, to rebegin. Forsythe calls this the “centerpoint” of movement (2011, Nov. 10). This centerpoint of movement is unlike the cen- terpoint of vision. It is not a focal point but an any-point. Not a focused center but a many-vectored point-fi	At this infl	point, movement contracts back into its own “dynamic difference” (Forsythe 2011, Nov. 23),
the differential gestural nexus where it is wholly and only in its element.
“A body is that which folds” (Forsythe 2008).
Movement’s folding in on itself is not something the body does. It is what bodying is. Movement embodies only itself. Movement’s making is corporeogenic: becoming-body.
Habit’s adaptive action functionally unfolds. Dance movement inven- tively infolds. New moves come from movement’s contracting back into its centerpoint, to re-splay as never before, throwing new curves for the seeing. Of course, a newly minted dance move is practiced, repeated, per- fected. It becomes a habit, an acquired skill. But at the heart of every habit
40