there is a contracting of the habit. Every adaptive unfolding comes from an inventive infolding. For this reason, there is a rhythm to dance creation. To avoid simply performing the movement sequences for the audience, to avoid simply displaying the visual form, and to avoid the dancers just portraying a character role in the performance—or just portraying them- selves in the role of performers—the bodying has to be reactivated at every moment. All of the techniques that Forsythe has developed over the years are techniques for movement reactivation.
With respect to all of the techniques, it helps, Forsythe says, to go “extremely fast” (2003b, 20). Because at extreme speed, the body “pushes the limit of its coordination” (Forsythe 2003b, 20). Its habits collapse into the velocity of movement. The body is at the limit of its functional capacity to chain positions and postures meaningfully and adaptively. It has no choice but to surrender itself to its own order of sensation. Move- ment approaches escape velocity, where it returns to its own orbit. Collapse of the sensorimotor schema.
Take it to the extreme. Take movement to its limit—“and then go fur- ther” (Forsythe 2011, Nov. 10). Movement doesn’t actually stop. It sub- sides into itself. It relaxes back into its fi for the reoccurring. It collapses back into the nonlocality of its any-point, the unlocalized interval of no perceptible movement. In every movement’s rise and fall, at any-point, there is an imperceptible interval where the rising and falling coincide. Waves  collect.  overbalance.  and  fall.
The form of movement, in and of itself, is not a straight line. It is a pulse. It is a waveform. Forsythe: “Waves on the seashore, one coming in as the last is going out, overtaking, receding. Don’t be where you are. Make yourself tidal” (2011, Nov. 10). In the tidal interval, the waves cancel each other out for an uncountable beat. They collapse into each other in dynamic superposition. At this any-point of superposition, there is no vis- ible movement. The body, movement, is in suspense. But the interval is no less motional for being in suspense: a welling; already a next overtaking a receding. A one, a two, the interval is co-motional. It doesn’t stand for any- thing. It doesn’t mean anything in particular—particularly not in general. It stands for what it is, which is what it does: a repotentializing interval of movement folding its sequential forms into its rolling on, the subsiding trace of the last a-bodying with the next to come. Movement never stops. It suspends itself in its own furtherance.
Movement always starts from a superposition, a mutual inclusion of
41