Project Overview
Immediations: Art, Media and Event is a large-scale partnership between 11universities (14 academic research centres), 17 community partners, 21 co-applicants and 2 collaborators. The goal is to formalize and solidify an existing network of collaboration that has been developed over the past 7 years through the activities of the SenseLab (www.senselab.ca), while extending the collaboration to new community partners. The SenseLab, directed by Erin Manning at Concordia University, is a laboratory for research-creation pairing art and philosophy. The partnership comprises universities and community partners who are actively involved in research-creation (through PhD programs, exhibition practices, research residencies, and research dissemination activities). The central aim is to study research-creation as a form of knowledge production in its own right, to explore its grounding and methods, and to foster its practice internationally. The premise of the project is that research-creation occurs at the intersection of different practices working in a variety of materials and media, both linguistic and non-linguistic (sound, image, movement, embodied interaction). Each of intersecting practices comes with its own history and methods, and produces research results specific to that tradition. However, working together they are able to produce research results that could not have been achieved separately. Research-creation not only generates new knowledge; it generates new forms of knowledge that are essentially collaborative in nature. Our proposition is that in order for this collaborative innovation in forms of knowledge production to succeed to best result, the participating practices must find effective ways to rub shoulders in immediate, active contact with each other. This means that platforms for organizing and orienting live, collaborative encounters must be put in place. A lived immediacy of encounter is another name for an event. Our partnership is designed to study the theory and practice of research-creation as the knowledge-art of the event, exploring best practices and developing them further. Research approaches normally work at a distance from each other, “mediated” by communicational practices that share information across disciplines without bringing them into direct working proximity. Immediations refers to strategies for bringing disciplines together in a shared working arena dedicated to collaborative encounter. The success of this endeavor requires a concerted program of research into the larger cultural context surrounding research-creation practices (see “Problematic” below).
	The cross-disciplinary make-up of our partnership (philosophy, architecture, dance, new media, fine arts) is ideal for the research we are proposing. We have a history of working together on the role of research-creation; we have published widely on research-creation, immediation, new media practices and the event (see bibliography); we have exhibited artworks – processual, digital, participatory – that engage with questions pertinent to this study; we have taught research-creation courses and brought several PhD students to completion; we have brought international artists and scholars together to actively work together to explore how new forms of knowledge are created. With this grant, we will formalize this network and bring it to the next level, while reaching out into the wider community.
	Our goal will be to become a leading voice in the definition of research-creation. This is not research that can be done by one scholar: it is about networking across practices, both institutional and community-based, in a field that is by nature transversal. With this grant, we will bring the model of research-creation to a stage where it can be disseminated amongst a wide variety of disciplines. This will be done via publication (5 monographs and 3 journal issues); a knowledge archive (see Anarchive below), planning towards a syllabus for advanced degrees and through a new concept of the exhibition developed specifically out of the research-creation model. The exhibition will itself tour a range of institutions, thereby functioning as a means of knowledge transfer. This will lead not only to the development of a strong academic research portfolio around the concept of research-creation. It will also have lasting effects as regards the relationship between the university and community organizations. 
Problematic 
	In order to investigate the theory and practice of research-creation as suggested above it is necessary to revisit the notion of “mediation,” enshrined in the very term “the media” which is everywhere today. In point of fact, all “media” stage and distribute real, embodied – that is, immediate – events. This capacity to enact in the immediacy of everyday life is an integral part of their definition. The transition from traditional video games to the Nintendo Wii and Microsoft Kinect is a case in point. In first-generation games, the player’s attention was funnelled into a “virtual” space framed off from the player’s everyday world. The experience was understood as “mediated” in the sense that the digital system was thought of as coming “between” the user and his or her lived context, in a way that many commentators interpreted as a distancing from reality. Wii and Kinect invert this schema. They bring the game into the everyday lived context, where it is acted out in a full-body participation that is perhaps even more kinesthetic (activating the sense of movement) than it is visual in tenor. This embodied event of moving participation comes across the platform of the technological system. It is experienced by the user as an event, and this eventness is equally sensed by any others who may be present. But cannot the same already be said of the traditional video game, for example a first-person shooter or a car racing game? Is not every fiber of the player’s body intensely absorbed in the play? Is not this act of experiencing perceived movement on screen already an embodied event? 
Gaming provides just one example of this immediation. An ear glued to an iPod on a bus induces an embodied variation on the everyday event of commuting, inflecting the listeners participation in the everyday with an altered economy of attention and an altered relation to those around. A pedestrian’s connection to the iPhone transmits changes in gait as much as it does information, modulating what comes to notice, and with what quality of attention, as much as it delivers words to be heard (and overheard). These mobile technologies subtly alter the experience of the city. Even restricting discussion to desktop technologies, the increasingly permutable mixing and matching of audio, visual images and text, accompanied by the tactility of the touch screen and the kinesthesia of the mouse, changes the body’s perceptual posture and redistributes its actions in relation to the interface, as much as the interface distributes information. These considerations can no longer be considered extraneous or secondary, they are not “merely” contextual. They are an inextricable dimension of what media do, all the more so as the digital technologies upon which they are all now based tend toward the ideal of “ubiquitous computing,” becoming more and more finely enmeshed in the spaces and operations of daily living, in an ever-expanding repertory of technologies of immediation.
The tendency toward “ubiquity” makes digital technologies, singly and in combination, a more and more integral feature of the human environment. Digital technologies take their place in a cultural and social landscape inhabited by any number of other media and forms of interaction. These belong to different domains, from art and media to politics, each of which organizes events and enactively redistributes bodily actions in its own way. The concept of immediation entails that the cultural or technical object can no longer be abstracted from the ways in which it contributes to and is changed by the larger environment of which it is part. This complex co-habitation weaves an ecology of lived experience. Thus the theory of immediation to be developed through this project must be ecological in the broadest sense of the word. By ecological we are referring to the term as defined by Guattari (1995, 2008) and Isabelle Stengers (2010), developed by Brian Massumi (2011), Erin Manning (2012), Anna Munster (forthcoming 2013), Andrew Murphie (2004a, 2004b) and Matthew Fuller (2007). An ecological approach is one which takes as object a field of mutual influence and co-adaptation between processes that are actively shaped through that interrelation, in a complex, coordinate evolution. From a media-and-event perspective, the suggestion is that what evolves are species of relational events (Massumi 2012; Manning 2009). Immediation is therefore as directly involved with the theory of the event and the philosophy of relation as it is with art and media practices.
The premise of the project is that the processes of “immediation” at large in the world today can be harnessed for transdisciplinary knowledge production. The partnership aims to study the larger “ecology of lived experience” within which its collaborations grow, while putting the immediating tendencies it finds in its cultural surroundings to work in its own special arena of collaborative knowledge production. Immediation is both the object of study and the methodology of the project. 
Research-creation is the existing arena best suited to the investigation of immediation. The term research-creation emerged in the Canadian context to facilitate the notion that art/media practices are a form of research. Corresponding terms in widespread use internationally are “art as research” and “practice-based research” (Leavy 2009, Schiesser/Brunner 2012). While there are still relatively few publications on art-based research methods, it is fast-growing and is unquestionably an area of great relevance today (Thain 2008, McCormick 2008, Vaughan 2005, Chapman/Sawchuk 2012, Barone/Elliot 2011, Butler-Kisber 2010) The strength of this project is that it is based on existing long-standing collaborations that focus on the question of how research-creation can be theorized as a mode of knowledge in its own right (see, for instance, the first issue of the SenseLab journal Inflexions: A Journal for Research-Creation). The strength of the SenseLab research around the concept of research-creation over the past seven years has been its ability to interface with scholars and artists in the field, a collaborative stance that has garnered recognition for research-creation in the wider art-based research culture. Our mandate for this project is not to suggest that our network holds the definition of research-creation, but that we have the tools and the experience to network within our institutions and across our communities to develop a strong working vocabulary for the concept and skill sets for the practice. We are working within a network that has enormous experience in this area. RMIT has had research-creation PhDs for over 20 years, and many of the institutions in our wider network have a long tradition of what they call art-based research (much longer than any institution in Canada). Our goal is to tap into these existing resources in order to contribute to the further development of the field. At a time when more and more institutions are welcoming a model that takes artistic practice as a form of research, but where there remains confusion about how they translate into the existing institutional frameworks and what modes of evaluation are appropriate for these practices, this exploration seems especially crucial. 
Literature Review 
The term media ecology grew out of Marshall McLuhan’s work and out of the Media Ecology Association connected to his scholarship. It has lately been retheorized by Goddard (forthcoming), Parikka (2011), Fuller (2007), Goodman (2009), and Pasquinelli (2011). Here, the emphasis is less on the McLuhan’s work per se than on Felix Guattari’s concept of an “ecology of practices.” The project will foreground this concept, and the related notion of the “aesthetico-political.” The aesthetico-political refers to the way that art/media events craft new forms of relation that may prefigure or even trigger social and political change.
The project will focus on approaches which understand media in experiential terms, experience in relational terms, and relationality in terms of the event, bridging art, media and the political with an ecological perspective (Bergson 1988, James 1996, Whitehead 1978, Langer 1953, Simondon 2005, Guattari 1995, Deleuze/Guattari 1996, Massumi 2002, Murphie 2002, Raunig 2007, Manning 2009, McKenzie 2010). A recent issue of co-applicant Andrew Murphie’s journal Fibreculture entitled Unnatural Ecologies (2011) foregrounds many of the problematics that will be addressed through the life of the project. It is important to underline that these are issues each of the participants in this project has addressed either (or both) theoretically and artistically. The partnership grant will serve to solidify this work and create the opportunity for institutional and community networks to develop around the role new forms of knowledge play in contemporary academic and artistic experience.
Research-creation has long been the central concern of the SenseLab, the center around which this partnership gravitates. The SenseLab journal Inflexions: A Journal for Research-Creation is dedicated to the development of the notion, as is a forthcoming book co-authored by Manning and Massumi entitled Thought in the Act: Passages in the Ecology of Experience. The SenseLab adopted the term with the goal of fundamentally rethinking the problem of the relation of “theory” to “practice” in a way that overcomes the often-assumed antagonism between them. “Practice,” we have proposed, is replete with concepts in action, and conceptual work is pregnant with as-yet untested possibilities. Both are equally creative, each in its own way. This complementarity can be brought out and developed by techniques of transdisciplinary collaboration specifically oriented to that task. Two things distinguish the SenseLab’s approach: 1) the emphasis it places on philosophy as a practice in its own right, and 2) its sustained dedication to putting this hypothesis pragmatically to work through experimentation with new forms of transdisciplinary collaboration. This double orientation has earned the SenseLab an international reputation as a central player in the redefinition of practice as research. Not only has the SenseLab seen a number of doctoral projects theorize this area (Troy Rhoades, Christoph Brunner, Bianca Scliar, Tagny Duff, Geneviève Ruest, Sarah Manya, Mayra Morales), many of our co-applicants and collaborators have explicitly written on the subject: see Thain (2008), Manning (2008, 2009, 2012), Massumi (2011), Murphie (2008), Munster (forthcoming 2012), Fritsch (2011), Ednie-Brown (2008), Keane (2006), Doruff (2010), Brunner (2011), Raunig/Ray (2009). Outside of our immediate network, the term has also been theorized in different ways by Sawchuk/ Chapman (2012), Buckley/Conomos (2009), Sullivan (2009), and Freeman (2010). Key to the development of the term for the purposes of the grant is the rigorous questioning of how knowledge is crafted. Of particular interest is the way in which non-linguistic forms of knowledge can coevolve with the philosophical development of concepts. 
Program of Research	
	The project will investigate the problematic of immediation from three connected interdisciplinary angles of research fostering an ecological approach to media, art and event. 
1) Recomposing Experience. Political philosopher Jacques Rancière (2006, 2009) developed the influential concept of the “distribution of the sensible” as a way of analyzing how new forms of artistic expression activate the senses in different combinations and in different relations of emphasis relative to each other (for example vision over sound, or vice versa). Such recompositions of experience are never without social and even political ramifications, because reorganising postures of perception modulate tendencies for action and interaction. Investigation in this area is by nature interdisciplinary, linking 
perception studies and the philosophy of experience to questions of emergent social organisation and 
political change (Massumi 2003, 2011; Manning 2008, 2009, 2012; Thain 2008; Lamarre 2009; de Zegher 2012; Munster 2006; Stavning Thomsen 2009; Halskov 2008; Hansen 2004). Relevant disciplines include art and media history, aesthetic theory (especially “relational aesthetics,” Bourriaud 1998), interactive systems/responsive environment design, and critical architecture and urban studies.
	2) The Anarchive. The anarchive refers to the fact that the archive in the digital age never sits still. Digital media events are reactivatable by nature, and lend themselves to re-uptake, remix and contagion. There is an in-built unruliness to them. This calls into question traditional practices of documentation and archiving, which operate on a model of passive storage. The anarchive is a kind of dynamic, open-air archiving in which media events are let loose to proliferate through networks, mutating as they go, and triggering follow-on events. The web-based project ANARCHIVE (http://www.anarchive.net/) is a good example of the concept: while it is a forum for the archiving of digital media, this collective explicitly foregrounds the fact that a digital archive involves the creation of “an original artwork.” Another example is Constitution of the Damned which describes itself as “a project setting up scenarios to activate codes and rules of self-organization” emphasizing that in the anarchive, archiving itself is an event. Working with co-applicant Ricardo Dal Farra, specialist in digital archiving, a consultant with archival experience shared between Artexte and the project, a postdoctoral researcher who specializes in curatorial practices and archiving and the wider knowledge base of the entire partnership group, we will build on such areas as network studies (Terranova 2004, Latour 2007, Castells 2009), “intermediality” theory (Ellström 2010, Oosterling 2010), “media archaeology,” museology, curatorial studies, archive studies, theories of “art intervention” and complexity and chaos theory (Prigogine/Stengers 1984). A database will be created in the first 5 years of the grant with a beta launch of an anarchive in 2017 and a final launch of the Anarchive in Research-Creation in 2019.
	3) Event Ecologies. Synthesizing research areas 1 and 2, it is here that research-creation as an emergent terrain in the “ecology of practices” will be most foregrounded. Through the concept of the event, our goal will be to become a leading voice in the definition of research-creation, bringing to the fore both new ways of understanding how knowledge is crafted and new forms of collaboration for the dissemination of these ways of knowing. Conceptually, our work will pivot on Whitehead’s process philosophy, whose rigorous attention to how fields of experience evolve and are differentiated from one another make it particularly useful as a central point of reference for a synthesis of the theoretical references informing the project. Whiteheadian philosophy is currently undergoing a dramatic renaissance, and we have in the partnership some of the most well-known contributors in this development. Both Massumi and Manning have devoted their recent philosophical works to process philosophy, and it has also been central to the work of Munster, Murphie, Thain, Lamarre and Ednie-Brown. It is also one of the key areas of interest in Massumi and Manning’s MIT Press series Technologies of Lived Abstraction, where books have been published such as Steven Shaviro’s Kant, Whitehead and Deleuze and Steven Goodman’s Sonic Warfare – two prominent works that bring forth Whiteheadian thought within an ecology that comprises media theory, philosophy and art. The concept of event ecologies conceived as an ecology of practices will serve as general framing for the research activities of the project rather than a template. The development of a diversity of elaborations will be encouraged in the dialogue among the partners. The aim will be to construct a repertory of keystone concepts to stimulate and orient further event-centred research in immediation, and to exemplify its potential through hands-on research in collaborative techniques. 
The project will implement an integrated 7-year program of research-creation activities. The activities will be organized in three 2-year cycles around the research themes named above. At the end of each 2-year cycle, a network-wide research-creation event will take place. The hub responsible for the event will coordinate international activities over that 2-year period. Local programs of activities (reading groups, invited lectures, exploratory research-creation workshops, etc.) will be linked in to the hub in charge of a given 2-year cycle. Activities will be centrally networked as they unfold, and the results shared and discussed project-wide, using the SenseLab group hub (online collaboration tool) as well as the low-cost, open-source telepresence system co-developed by co-applicant Courchesne. We have extensive experience with such networking (see documentation from our international event “A Society of Molecules” in Inflexions) and will further develop tools to keep these inter-hub discussions energised. 
2013-2014: Lead Hub: Australia. The emphasis of this first period will be on building conceptual vocabulary related to the experiential aspects of immediation, on solidifying the inter-university network of collaboration, and on lauching the collaboration between university and community partners network-wide. Residencies for students, post-doctoral candidates and co-applicants will take place at Critical Path and Artspace in Sydney and at Avoca Project in Melbourne in preparation for a network-wide colloquium in 2014 entitled “Recomposing Experience.” Experts in the field will be invited and the event will be open to the public. A special issue of the journal Fibreculture will be prepared. Two book manuscript proposals will be selected during this period for the Open Humanities Press (OHP) book series. The research into the database for research-creation will begin, spearheaded by one of the selected post-doctorates.
2015-2016: Lead Hub: Europe. Local and centralised activities will turn to questions of the “event” of knowledge production understood in terms of immediation, with the second research theme The Anarchive as special focus. Residencies will take place in Amsterdam and Aarhus at the Rietveld and Godsbanen. In 2016, the Europe hub will organise a Research-Creation Event with the assistance of curator Catherine de Zegher (combining concept work and hands-on art practice). This event will grow from the previous colloquium. It will build on that experience and the local activities leading up to it, as well as the SenseLab’s accumulated expertise and techniques garnered through its previous projects combined with those gleaned from the partnership grant thus far. Based on this event, in 2016 a special issue of Inflexions will be prepared. The Inflexions practice is to invent a unique dynamic interface specific to the conceptual node of each issue, with the aim of exploring the unique audiovisual and networking possibilities offered by the internet vis-à-vis print media. The design of the interface will be a collaborative activity of the partnership, in connection with its exploration of the “anarchive” theme. The Anarchive itself will begin to be created in consultation with Artexte in Montreal, and with the database webmaster.
2017-2018 : Lead Hub: Montreal. The focus will be on the research theme Event Ecologies and on the notion of an “ecology of practices.” Residencies will take place at the Design Studio for Social Intervention (DS4SI) in Boston, the Bioscleave House in New York, and at Oboro in Montreal. With a special focus on community-based artistic practices and practices of art-based social intervention, the final 2-year period will work to bring together community partners across the network. An International Conference will be hosted in 2018 in Montreal, which will be of experimental format, integrating research-creation methods to reinvigorate the conference genre. The network will by now have extended to new students and faculty from across the various hubs. The goal of this event will be to secure new institutional partnerships across the network and to assist local community partners in establishing stronger research-creation platforms. The results of this event will be published in a special issue of Transversal, to appear in 2018. 
2019 : The project will culminate in a year-long program of activities, including the launch of the Anarchive; the launch of the first 3 books in the OHP series; and a culminating research-creation exhibition embodying the concepts and approaches developed over the life of the project. A special focus will be on innovation in practices of knowledge dissemination in connection with public sector art institutions. An experimental-format exhibition catalogue will be produced on the theme of Immediations, to be published at MIT Press, and an accompanying international colloquium organised held at the Musée des Beaux-Arts  in Montreal. de Zegher will spear-head the redefinition of the art event (de Zegher’s approach to the 2012 Sydney Biennale, all our relations, resonates strongly with the approach to research-creation outlined here). The activities will be networked to all project hubs using the collaborative techniques and research-creation approaches developed during the partnership. An edited volume will be prepared for publication in 2020 (MIT Press) that will present results in the 3 research areas as well as reflections on collaborative practice. Project results will also appear through the project-related publications of individual researchers and publication programs of partner organizations throughout the life of the partnership.
Method 
The proposed partnership aims to develop a collaborative framework for the philosophical exploration of approaches to art and media that privilege the category of the event and the immediacy of the experience it implies. Since this event-oriented approach entails notions of enactment, it would be inconsistent to exclude activities utilising enactment itself as a research tool. For this reason, the partnership will put research-creation principles into action as a methodology in its own program of activities. 
The partnership will approach creative arts and media practice as an active laboratory for theoretical research. It is our collective view that research-creation is not confined to artistic practices narrowly defined, nor does it involve simply taking creative practice as an object upon which research models from the humanities or social sciences are applied from without. Rather, it involves actively remodeling the complementarity between making and thinking, from within a shared field of inquiry which places them in communication without subordinating one to the other. Platforms for reciprocal influence and active dialogue will be set in place to encourage a two-way movement of cross-fertilization, building on a 7-year history of such endeavours, spear-headed by the SenseLab, in which all of the partnership participants have been involved in one capacity or another. Now working with community partners as well, we will integrate their approaches to exhibition, archiving and research-creation to develop a wider-ranging set of techniques to address the question of how knowledge is crafted in the interstices of art and research. This will happen through: focused theoretical/philosophical research (including hub-based and international reading groups); a schedule of publishing that includes documenting research-results in Inflexions, Transversal and Fibreculture as well as producing 5 book manuscripts for the OHP; a series of exhibitions/research-creation events co-organized by the community partners; a series of seminars located in each hub open to the public; an interfacing with community partners (Artexte in particular) around the issue of the anarchive; the creation of a thorough database of research-creation practices. All the co-applicants have a practice of research-creation and are accustomed to working across different forms of knowledge, both on their own and collaboratively. By foregrounding both collective and single-author production, we will build on the resources of the participants. This will facilitate the creation of a dynamic network of collaborative exchanges. The creation of this program of activities will be accompanied by an ongoing methodological reflection on techniques of collaboration and the implications of an immediations approach to their evolution, foregrounding that knowledge is always co-created and co-emergent across disciplinary boundaries. An inter-hub research residency program facilitated by the 17 community partners will operate throughout the lifetime of the grant, in order to intensify channels of communication and foster cross-fertilization of ideas and methods between the hubs, the partner organisations and participants. The residencies will be open to university faculty and students as well as independent artists and will generate exhibitions and research-creation events open to the wider public. 
Originality/Contribution 
At a time when research institutions everywhere are considering the role art plays in the creation of knowledge, it is invaluable to have a partnership grant that is proactive in its study of research-creation. Concordia University is a leading institution in this regard, with its highly regarded fine arts faculty and the spear-heading role it has taken in the adoption of research-creation PhDs (via the Interdisciplinary Humanities PhD and the Special Individualized Programs PhD). With more than 30 million dollars invested in infrastructure toward new media research-creation projects (Hexagram) and a strategic plan that involves expanding this role of leader in the fine arts, Concordia not only stands to gain from the partnership, but is in a position to assist other institutions in exploring what research-creation means for the academic institution and its place in the creative economy. Each of the institutions selected are playing pivotal roles in the development of research-creation. UQAM has a vibrant research-creation PhD in its Faculty of Fine Arts and is jointly associated to Hexagram, Zurich University of the Arts has an established reputation not only in the fine arts but also in theory of aesthetics and the question of how art and politics interrelate, Aarhus University is unparalleled in its exploration of research-creation from the angle of how digital media can be integrated into the urban environment to provide platforms for citizen interaction around such issues as global warming, and RMIT (to name but a few of the partners) is arguably the leading program in research-creation in Australia, with over 20 years experience in the granting of practice-based PhDs across the disciplines of architecture, textile, installation art and new media. The aim of the partnership grant is to build upon these existing resources to better define the role research-creation can play in our universities today. The partnership will create a lasting network enabling member institutions to benefit from each other’s research-creation outlooks and experiences. As partners, we will develop a model for cross-institutional research in arts and media, and for its effective documentation. In tandem with this, the project will foster new pedagogical approaches to advanced study in research-creation.
The originality of the Immediations project lies both in the innovative approach it brings to the concept and practice of research-creation, and in the transdisciplinary reach of the partnership it will develop around that approach. The project is rooted in an existing network that is now ready to mature into a formal partnership. The partnership will take the form of an international university network, with tie-ins to extra-university partners in the art world and among community-based organizations practicing an aesthetic approach to social issues and politics (community partner DS4SI is internationally recognized as a leader in this area). This partnership will facilitate long-term student exchanges, faculty exchanges and formal agreements that strengthen the already interdisciplinary approach central to research-creation. Special attention will be paid to new forms of distance collaboration, publishing and exhibiting that make full use of the networking potentials offered by the internet and digital media more generally. Immediation will become a term for articulating emergent modes of knowledge-formation building transversally across ecologies of practices.
One of the main institutional contributions the project will make in the university context is in laying the foundation for stronger programs in research-creation. As director of the Humanities Interdisciplinary PhD at Concordia, where the majority of our recent applications in the fine arts are in research-creation, I am keenly aware of the need for better methods and conceptual tools to support students whose work no longer falls within the traditional parameters of the written thesis. It is increasingly common for doctoral projects to combine theoretical writing with creative art or media production. This is precisely the conjunction our project focuses on in all its facets. The question is not simply “how do we judge the research contribution of an artwork?” but more broadly “what kind of ecology of knowledge is in play in a research process that integrally includes extra-linguistic elements accompanying the written component?” How do we articulate the importance and coherence of a process that defies the categorizations the academic world has tended to foreground as markers of knowledge? Our project is in a particularly strong position to contribute in this connection because it brings together an extremely knowledgeable team that has extensive experience in addressing these issues in their research as well as institutionally. The partnership will enable the formation of an enduring inter-institutional network that will provide a fertile setting for students and faculty to explore and define issues of research-creation. This will potentially contribute across university sectors, as research-creation can work across the social sciences, hard sciences and the arts, and into the wider artistic community. 
Through this grant, Canada will be taking the lead on research-creation, establishing itself as a key player in how the concept will be defined. The partnership, furthermore, will be in an ideal position to contribute to a burgeoning discourse both within and outside the university about extra-linguistic knowledge practices and how these can be understood to coexist with forms of knowing more readily recognized by the academic institution. The partnership will be in a position to help build research-creation programs that are planned or under development, bringing to them the framing theories of immediation we are proposing. We have firm commitments from 12 academic institutions to create a lasting partnership building on the strengths of existing programs to create new research-creation based models of collaboration and partnering practices. This is especially important in the Fine Arts. Art programs are expensive to run, and classes are generally smaller and more time-intensive. With financial constraints around the globe, conceiving of better ways to share resources is extremely important. Through the partnership grant, we will adopt ways of working across institutions that better make use of scarce resources. By combining our efforts in the redefinition of forms of knowing, we will streamline postgraduate studies in the fine arts in ways that will be beneficial across the network. Through our research initiatives, we will develop the conceptual orientation of each of the programs, experiment with new forms of collaborative research and knowledge dissemination, create exchange platforms for students and faculty, develop better strategies for the continued sharing of knowledge and infrastructure. This will allow us to fundamentally rethink the way knowledge is understood today and it will do so without needing to replicate infrastructures. From the perspective of the universities involved, the strongest contribution of the project will be its capacity to generate publications and event-based workshops that will facilitate the rethinking of how we evaluate new forms of knowledge. In this time of austerity with very few academic positions in the Humanities, it is pressing for all of the institutional partners to better understand the role art practice can play within knowledge-creation not only in the fine arts but across the humanities and the social sciences. 
The proposed partnership includes internationally respected artists and researchers whose work is at the forefront in defining media ecologies and immediation along the lines presented here. Amongst the artists are Lyndal Jones and Simryn Gill, both of whom have represented Australia at the Venice Biennale; Gisèle Trudel, Jondi Keane and Jonas Fritsch, whose research-creation practice productively spans urban intervention, exhibitions and research forums and Sher Doruff, who has a strong legacy in the articulation of research-creation as a concept in the arts. We also have Brian Massumi, philosopher of the event and experience, Andrew Murphie, Tom Lamarre, Bodil-Marie Thompsen and Anna Munster, theorists of performance, affect and network ecologies, and Gerald Raunig, theorist of social movements. Pia Ednie Brown, Kim Halslov, Sam Spurr and Thomas Kolding bring a strong foundation in architecture and its long relationship to practices of research-creation. Christoph Brunner and Lynn Hughes bring expertise in creating research-creation programs while Alanna Thain and Ricardo Dal Farra bring experience with the archive and the creation of databases. The community partners are recognized as strong leaders in the field, particularly in the area of artist-run centres.