Such  is the  event of their  work.    By event  is meant what  “happens” when we “walk  into”  the “purposeful guess” (2002: 23) of Gins and  Arakawa’s works  that range  from Architectural Body to Reversible Destiny. Their words and  images  cause their  readers to heed,  with  uncommon sensitivity, the force of the experience of space.  To  see  how  it  is  enough to  compare the  way  the  snail  encounters the immediate world to what  Gilles Deleuze, a philosopher given  to praise  creatures as insignificant as ticks, makes  of an event  in Le Pli: Leibniz et le baroque (Deleuze
1988),  a  work   of  aesthetic philosophy  where  much   of  Gins  and   Arakawa’s hypotheses  find   common  sympathies.  The  title  of  the  fifth  chapter  poses   a question that the text below  seeks to answer. “What  is an Event?”   What  is it? At first glance,  in following Alfred  North Whitehead’s Concept of Nature, Process and Reality  and   Adventures   in  Ideas, Deleuze argues  that   an  event   happens in  a condition of  chaos,  when time  and  space,  sensed as  a  webbing or  crible that emerges from—while belonging to—the  condition of chaos.  The permeable net allows  something “one”  to emerge from  things “many.” The  component of an event  is the apprehension of extension, much  like that  which  Robert  and  Angela encounter when they  visit  chez Madeleine and  Arakawa. Yet when “extensive series”  of sensations intervene in the  difference between a totality and  its parts (when  intensity and  timber of a sound or  the  tint  and  saturation of color  are discerned) a second dimension of the event  comes forward. And,  as the Architectural Body might  also  posit,  the  sensation of these  series  turns extension into  intension or  “intensities, degrees.  It’s  no  longer   ‘something  rather than nothing’ but ‘this rather than  that’.   No longer  the indefinite article, but the demonstrative  pronoun”  (Deleuze 1988: 87,  88).  The  third  component of  the event  comes  forward with  the  individual, with  prehension. In Deleuze’s  words, “[e]very   thing   prehends  its  antecedents  and   its  concomitants  and   gradually prehends a world. The eye is a prehension of light. Living beings  prehend water,