shift in space-time makes us aware of the displacement. We know what we’ve felt when we are no longer in the feeling.
If we were conscious of the quality of our movement—our posture—passing through every reconfiguration of the body moving, we wouldn’t move much. We would be too busy tweaking our movement as it was happening. In fact, we would be trying to stop-start the movement, getting in the way of the reconfigu- rations of the pure plastic rhythm of movement moving. It would be like trying to get at the force of movement to alter its trajectory by holding it back.
Moving with movement requires an altered idea of consciousness. This con- sciousness is not of the body but with the body moving. This is what Feldenkrais and Paxton call “awareness,” a feeling-with of the body moving. This feeling-with is a virtual dance. It is too quick for conscious thought, and yet it composes with it as a layering of felt experience in the making. As José Gil writes: “The imma- nence of body awareness emerges on the surface of consciousness and hence- forth constitutes its essential element” (2006, n.p.).
We are aware of the quality of our movement without being conscious of it. You might ask: what about pain? Aren’t we conscious of pain when it “gets in the way” of our movement moving? Pain produces a shift in awareness that makes us conscious of how we can’t move, but this consciousness is not of the move- ment per se. It is consciousness of how movement hurts. This awareness inter- rupts the intensive magnitude of a durational attitude. Pain shifts the texture of a movement. It makes the quality of the movement felt: a particular intensity in the durational attitude of the movement has differentiated itself. We feel the safe parameters of movement moving and resist those that cause a resurgence of pain. The negative of the movement has made the movement’s edge appear for consciousness. As Whitehead writes: “The negative perception is the triumph of consciousness” (1929/1978, 161).
For Whitehead, consciousness is always felt after the fact. Consciousness is a recollection of a movement having moved. We cannot be conscious of posture as such because it is a durational attitude of a becoming-movement. It is the breath of movement’s in-gathering. The quality of posture is expressed virtually in the displacement that follows. Posture is the threshold, the incipient grace, the texture that contributes to having known what it felt like to move. It has a consistency, which explains why other people can recognize postural tendencies when they watch you move. But you cannot know it as such because how you move movement is not something you are conscious of.
A Mover’s Guide to Standing Still	47