worst stages of their disease, these patients seem catatonic, completely incapable of making contact with the outside world.
Take the case of Hester Y. At the age of thirty, Hester began to feel the effects of post-encephalitis lethargica syndrome. At first, Hester experienced a simple loss of flow: “She would be walking or talking with a normal pattern and flow, and then suddenly, without warning, would come to a stop—in mid-stride, mid- gesture, or the middle of a word; after a few seconds she would resume speech and movement, apparently unaware that any interruption had occurred” (Sacks 1990, 95). Because of the progressive nature of the disease, soon Hester could no longer auto-resume the flow. Then for decades Hester was immobilized with a blank and vacuous expression on her face.
What Oliver Sacks found when he started to work with Hester and others suf- fering from post-encephalitic syndrome at Mount Carmel hospital in 1965 was that these patients could in fact move. They just couldn’t do it by themselves. To move, they had to be activated. One of Sack’s hypotheses was that he was deal- ing with an acute kind of Parkinsonism, whereby the usual symptomatic “shak- ing” was translated into immobility. It was as though the shaking had become so severe as to result in a total freezing of the body. The encephalitis lethargica patients’ need to be activated by “outside” stimuli suggested to Sacks that auto- activation had been damaged by the neurological disease as it often is in Parkin- sonian patients, albeit on a lesser scale.29
There is an important difference to be made between movement and auto- activation, especially if activation is linked to displacement. According to their own accounts, Sacks’s patients do not associate the “catatonic” phase of the dis- ease with a total loss of movement. What they experience seems to be closer to absolute movement—a degree-zero of movement—than to a complete stopping. Absolute movement as they describe it is movement without auto-activation. They feel movement, but cannot translate the feeling into displacement. In their “frozen” states, this absoluteness becomes severe inertia.
Inertia is the property of a body by virtue of which it tends to persist in a state of rest or uniform motion unless it is acted upon by an external force. Inertia does not imply a total loss of movement: it suggests an inability to activate a change in state. An inertial body is still moving, but its movement is absolute: movement without punctuation or change in degree. Absolute movement is the complete smoothness of movement, felt as a loss of differentiation of space or time.
Taking the Next Step	51