In Hester’s early years of post-encephalitic syndrome, she could be brought out of her inertia by “the merest touch . . . which served to dissipate these states, and to permit immediate resumption of movement and speech” (Sacks 1990, 95–96). At this stage in her disease, her inertia was in line with an extreme form of what most people experience at one time or another. All bodies tend toward a certain degree of inertia: it is not uncommon to find ourselves dazed by a televi- sion screen. Or to find it difficult to “snap out” of a daydream or get out of bed in the morning.30 The difference between Hester’s case and ours is the movement’s ability to auto-activate change. Auto-activation—the habitual capacity to change direction, speed, state—is something we generally take for granted. Able-bodied people tend not to question their ability to take the next step.31
But people like Hester who suffer Parkinsonian symptoms as a result of con- tracting encephalitis lethargica can no longer take auto-activation for granted. Activation must come from outside, usually with someone else’s assistance.32 This can occur in different ways. For example, if you throw Hester a ball, she will catch it, even when apparently “immobilized.” If you place her in front of stairs or other landscape affordances she may suddenly be able to climb. But place her in an open space and she will stay stock-still. On her own, especially where experiential space-time is “smooth,” Hester cannot move.
As with all states of inertia, what is necessary is a force coming from else- where. In most of us, this “elsewhere” need not be initiated by someone else: it is embedded in habits of movement. It is important to distinguish here between the idea of willing movement (i.e., I want to move) and moving through hab- its of movement (i.e., moving through a future-pastness that is already welling in our capacity to move). Think of morning inertia. What gets you from your quasi-awake state out of bed? The thought of coffee likely gets you moving. Cof- fee propels you through the frozen state into auto-activation, stimulating some- thing akin to the taste of being awake. You move without giving another thought to the challenge of taking the next step. Coffee’s on your mind.
Not so with post-encephalitic patients. Nothing can make them think their way from absolute movement to displacement. Perception has been damaged such that a thought gets them nowhere. Rose R. explains:
Whatever I do or whatever I think leads deeper and deeper into itself. . . . Everything I do is a map of itself, everything I do is a part of itself, every part leads into itself. . . . I’ve got a thought in my mind, and then I see something in it, like a dot on the skyline. It comes nearer and nearer, and then I see what it is—it’s just the same thought I was thinking
52	Chapter 3