before. And then I see another dot, and another, and so on. . . . Or I think of a map; then a map of that map, and each map is perfect, though smaller and smaller. . . . Worlds within worlds within worlds. . . . Once I get going I can’t possibly stop. It’s like being caught between mirror, or echoes, of something. Or being caught in a merry-go-round which won’t come to a stop. (qtd. in Sacks 1990, 76n54)
Thought implodes, getting in the way of the potential for release into movement. There is no past or future here. With thought constantly folding-in, the potenti- ality for an elsewhere folds into itself, becoming yet another fold in the process toward infinite infolding. In the end, there is not even the capacity to conceive of an “elsewhere.” Absolute movement: the incapacity to experience the transduc- tion from incipiency to activation.
When Hester entered Mount Carmel hospital in her thirty-sixth year, she de- scended into an almost constant “immobile” state. After meeting Hester in 1966, Sacks realized with dismay “that it [was] possible for Parkinsonism and cata- tonia to reach an infinite degree of severity” (Sacks 1990, 97). Sacks describes his meeting with Hester as a realization of the “infinite nature,” “the qualitative infinity” of post-encephalitis under the most dire conditions. This encounter leads Sacks to theorize that the immobility of encephalitis lethargica is a kind of layering of infinitudes of inertial quasi states. He writes:
It suddenly came to me that Parkinsonism was a propensity, a tendency—which had no minimum, no maximum, and no finite units; that it was anumerical from its first infini- tesimal intimation or twinge, that it could proceed by an infinite multitude of infinitesi- mal increments to an infinite, and then more infinite, and still more infinite, degree of severity. And that its “least part,” so to speak, possessed (in infinitesimal form) the entire, indivisible nature of the whole. (Sacks 1990, 97n63)
Because of the severity of her condition, Hester’s “awakening” is particularly striking, not least because of her remarkable ability to articulate states unimagin- able to those of us who have no trouble getting moving. One of the aspects of her disease Hester describes is the experience of the “smoothness” of space during her “catatonic” states. Smoothness for Hester is akin to having “no sense of pro- cess of forces or field” (qtd. in Sacks 1990, 112n71). Standing in for the propel- ling force of activation is a flatness, an uninterrupted vista of nothingness, an infinitely slowed-down movie experience that she can but watch passively “like a movie film which is running too slow” (1990, 112n71). Hester describes herself as inertially alive in her movie-world but incapable of relating to an “elsewhere.” The only option left: to replay her movie in slow-motion in an inward-folding account of the same nowhere again and again to infinity.
Taking the Next Step	53