Sensing is a topological activity. When we sense, we experience and create folds of space-time. We sense on top of senses, one sense-experience always em- bedded in another: cross-modal repetition with a difference. For example, when we walk toward a wall, we perceive that wall as limiting our potential displace- ment, but as we approach it, it also appears as being a certain color or texture. We sense its presence in ways both causal (directly relational) and perceptually nuanced.
The inertia Hester experiences in her frozen state is a topological implosion of perception without the causal relations that would connect her surroundings to an “elsewhere.” To connect (to) environments is to directly perceive the en- vironment’s relation to our moving body. When implosion occurs—an inertia at the level of the infinitesimal—it becomes impossible to sense-with. There is no toward to which to relate. Frozen, encephalitis lethargica patients are in a constant, immanent state of sense implosion.
Hester describes this imploding universe as akin to looking through a stained-glass window refracted at odd angles in an infinity of opaque layers. What Hester describes is the immanence of the absoluteness of movement infolding. Sense-presentation takes over, relegated to a regressive passivity, a taking-in that becomes an observation of infinite refraction. Causal links are increasingly distant. Taking the place of relational networks is a kind of memory of sense, a “pure,” undifferentiated sensing rather than a sensing-with. There is nowhere to go but in.
In their process of “awakening,” especially when it becomes apparent that levodopa (L-dopa) is not a wonder drug that will unproblematically continue to work long-term, many of Sacks’s patients begin to invent techniques to keep the infolding at bay. In their “immobilized” states, as described earlier, their experience of space is one of overwhelming smoothness. This smoothness cur- tails their ability to find or create landmarks. To counter the encroachment of smooth space, they devise ways to create an experience of striation that assists them when they feel the encroachment of inertia. These techniques are modes of bringing space-time into relation.
The key to auto-activation is change. To move, we need space-time to appear, to make itself felt as such. The danger of infinite smoothness is precisely that there is no appearance, no “standing out.” Without it, nothing can be felt as such: the field of perception flattens. In this eternal smoothness, what is left is hardly more than the “nothing” of Rose’s “just the same thought as I was thinking be- fore. . . . Worlds within worlds within worlds” (qtd. in Sacks 1990, 76n54).
54	Chapter 3