The question is: what activates perception in such a way that it incites us to take the next step? Whitehead has an answer. He believes that what activates our capacity to world is causal efficacy as completed through what he calls symbolic reference.33 Causal efficacy is the stage of perception that refers to the immanent relationality of all experience. When Hester talks about her sense of there being no space-time in her frozen state, she is referring to a lack of the immediacy of relation. The motivation for taking the next step is relation: there has to be a force toward which to connect. This force is not a decision in the sense of an individual wanting to move. It is a relational encounter with the immediacy of pastness working in the present. To move is to move-with the experience of movement moving. It is to feel-with the incipiency of preacceleration.
Relation in its incipiency is a field of force. This force acts causally on the sensing body in movement, dispersing its inertia. Relation is causal in the sense that it preempts a connection. Hester cannot walk in a “smooth” open space because there is nothing to preempt auto-activation. But when there is a boulder in front of her, she can climb over it. This is because the boulder striates the oth- erwise open or smooth space, provoking auto-activation by bringing space-time into focus. The boulder makes the injunction to move felt in a way that open space cannot.
In their frozen states, such activators are necessary for post-encephalitic pa- tients. The causal efficacy at the heart of activation seems to have gone missing. While they know how to move, they have no capacity to get moving—they are missing the relational field that brings motion into action. They sense, and yet their sense perceptions seem to know no bounds. Inwardly convulsed within absolute movement, their prehensions of sensa fold into themselves. Neurologi- cally, the “with” seems to be blocked. Without causal efficacy, moving-with the world worlding is impossible.
Causal efficacy activates the how of experience. It is non-sensuous in that it builds on pastness: it is “heavy with the contact of the things gone by, which lay their grip on our immediate selves” (Whitehead 1927, 44). This experience of pastness folds into a relational presentness that gives experience the breadth that opens it to activation. Through causal efficacy, we immediately feel our connectedness to the world in its present appearance. This explains why, for most of us, taking the next step is not an issue. We know the ground is there: we trust our capacity to gauge space. We walk easily with the implicit knowledge of the intrinsic relation between body, ground, and space-time. We move through movement moving. The pastness of experience has taught us how to feel the
Taking the Next Step	55