approach of a wall, to immediately know whether there is room to continue moving. We don’t have to consider where the ground is. We feel the cliff ’s edge coming into appearance. We intuitively know how to field space-time because space-time appears to us as a fold of relation. This fold makes sense to us: we find our movement through it. This does not mean that we don’t make mistakes— sometimes our sense of space skews, and we walk into a mirror, or we miss a step and fall, or we trip over a wrinkle in the carpet. But generally, causal efficacy provides us with an immediate sense of how things go together.
When causal efficacy is missing, as it seems to be with post-encephalitic patients, there’s nowhere to go but still. It is impossible to gear into activation without the causal relations that make space-time tangible. Sacks’s patients are overwhelmed by an undifferentiated otherworldliness that takes in the complex qualities of experience without being able to connect them to one- another—otherworldly, because the frozen state occludes the very concept of worlding. With L-dopa, the perceptual experience of causal efficacy suddenly seems available, and displacement becomes possible. Neurologically, L-dopa seems to return to the patients this lost ability to field relation. But without first being “awakened,” this capacity of Sacks’s patients to activate relation is lim- ited to the infinitely nuanced but, for them, infuriatingly timeless experience of what Whitehead calls presentational immediacy, the state where perception is ensconced in the perception of perception.
Presentational immediacy works at the perceptual levels of complexity and subtlety, gauging patterns and contrasts. By itself, it does nothing.34 “This mode of perception, taken purely by itself, is barren, because we may not directly con- nect the qualitative presentations of other things with any intrinsic characters of those things” (Whitehead 1927, 23). To reach the stage of full perception, presentational immediacy must recombine with causal efficacy: “Every actual thing is something by reason of its activity; whereby its nature consists in its relevance to other things, and its individuality consists in its synthesis of other things so far as they are relevant to it” (Whitehead 1927, 25). In presentational immediacy, activity is restricted to self-reference.
Symbolic reference, the culmination of perception into relational synthesis, occurs when the modes of causal efficacy and presentational immediacy overlap and intertwine, when the direct action of relation is experienced alongside the qualities evoked through perceptual morphogenesis. The folding of presenta- tional immediacy into causal efficacy and vice versa captures the eventness of experience both as that which participates in the nuances of sensing and as the
56	Chapter 3