immediateness of relation. Causal efficacy provides the datum for presentational immediacy, and presentational immediacy propels the immediate givenness of the causal event toward the complexity of lived experience.
Without the two together, we cannot fully participate in experience. The world flattens when causal relationality falls out of it, becoming “stained glass windows.” What is experienced is not a worlding but an infinite refraction of col- ored glass. It’s like a sensory overload without anywhere to fold but in, infinitely. Miss T explains: “I can do nothing alone. I can do anything with—with music or people to help me. I cannot initiate, but I can fully share . . . The moment you go away I am nothing again” (qtd. in Sacks 1990, 61). What is missing in this case is the capacity to auto-link sensation to worlding. Techniques of recombination fail to extend beyond the infolding sensa enveloping her.
In the state of “awakeness” or activation, symbolic reference appears fully functional in Sack’s post-encephalitic patients. “By symbolic reference the vari- ous actualities disclosed respectively by the two modes are either identified, or are at least correlated together as interrelated elements in our environment” (Whitehead 1927, 17). Key to symbolic reference is the overlapping of percep- tion and relation. The overlapping of perception and relation can be conceptu- alized as the force of habit, as long as we consider habits to be event-forming. Habits are not pure reiteration: they are repetition with a difference. Through habit, we move through movement again. This moving through movement al- ways brings with itself a new series of relational networks. Conjunctive potential mixed with sense experience makes every perception an event.
“Awake,” post-encephalitic patients are clearly within the complex realm of symbolic reference. This is demonstrated through the patients’ capacity not only to articulate the astonishing aspects of their various states but also to invent in- genious techniques to bring causal efficacy into presentational immediacy such that they can continue to benefit from symbolic reference. Frances D. describes one such technique. She explains that even on L-dopa, she has a tendency to re- freeze in certain spaces, such as the long corridor of the hospital. To de-freeze herself,35 she carries a supply of small paper balls. As she feels herself begin to slip into inactivation, she drops a ball. The ball has a double function: it striates the long, otherwise “smooth” corridor, bringing the corridor into the space-time of relation that permits her to take the next step, and it allows her to keep mov- ing in the awakeness of the reacquired state of symbolic reference. One ball can act on more than one step.
Taking the Next Step	57