Smoothness does not carry within itself the possibility for change. When per- ception works, smooth space is “constantly being translated, transversed into a striated space; striated space is constantly being reversed, returned to a smooth space” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 474). When it doesn’t, as with Frances D., only the feeling of smoothness remains. This feeling is associated with “an amor- phous, nonformal space” that “one occupies without counting,” a space without break or module, “an intensive rather than extensive space, one of distances, not of measures and properties” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 477–479).
Frances D.’s space-striators awaken her to the complexity of space striating, triggering causal efficacy: their “tiny whiteness” immediately “incite” or “com- mand” her to take the next step (Sacks 1990, 63). But these striators by them- selves do not cause her to move. They create the conditions for the relation movement-body-space to rejig into activation. This propels into motion the inertia that is beginning to set in, transducing absolute movement into preac- celeration into displacement. Space striators are techniques for moving through movement for those who have lost their capacity to world. They can take the form of music, a loud-ticking watch, horizontal lines drawn on the floor, balls thrown, an obstacle course, a boulder, stairs. Anything that intercepts the seem- ing emptiness of smooth space potentially works. Because to freeze, according to Lillian T., is “to freeze in empty spaces” (Sacks 1990, 63n47).
Smooth space feels empty: it mimics the infolding space-time of extreme Par- kinsonism. “Many of the symptoms and features of Parkinsonism, especially ‘freezing,’ are due to getting stuck in a Parkinsonian emptiness or vacuum. Stuck- ness gives rise to more stuckness, or paralysis, or entrancement of attention—on there being . . . no proper object for attention” (Sacks 1990, 63n47). There being no discrete appearance for perception is the felt-effect of dwelling in presenta- tional immediacy, where infinities of nuance take hold and go nowhere. To feel without the capacity to do is to be imprisoned in the midst of sensa without the capacity to make connections. Connections come from past recombinations activated in a present. These recombinations are techniques for relation that activate experience even as they add to it.
When symbolic reference occurs, a worlding takes place. This worlding can lead to false premises: the very fact that it can be delusional is a key aspect of symbolic reference. Perceptions can mislead us—the bump on the floor may turn out to be a cat. This capacity for delusion gives our worlds shape. Within the flatness of smooth space, delusion is non-existent. What takes over is a
58	Chapter 3