repetition of the same, an overwhelming nowness that becomes a nothingness. Because nothing ever changes, nothing ever develops. Rose calls this the “flat- ness of nothing.” This nothing is the effect of presentational immediacy folding in on itself absolutely, resulting in an affectless layering of bare sensa. In a dia- logue with Sacks, Rose explains.
Sacks:    But how can you possibly think of nothing?
Rose: It’s dead easy, once you know how. . . . One way is to think about the same thing again and again. Like 2=2=2=2; or, I am what I am what I am what I am . . . It’s the same thing with my posture. My posture continually leads to itself. Whatever I do or whatever I think leads deeper and deeper into itself. (Sacks 1990, 76n54)
Without symbolic reference, experience empties. It is not only nothing: it feels like nothing.
When auto-activation ceases, time stops. Infolding toward emptiness, the frozen Rose feels no link to a past because to feel that past, it would have to be activated. She would have to think new thoughts. But this is precisely what she cannot do. She can only re-think or re-feel the absoluteness of her inertia. The vastness of that smoothness lulls her into an even deeper nothing in which sensa are present but not directly perceived. Process without event.36
In presentational immediacy there is neither past nor future, which is why Whitehead stresses the need for the continual interfolding of causal efficacy and presentational immediacy. “The how of our present experience must conform to the what of the past in us” (Whitehead 1927, 57). Symbolic reference takes us back to the relation out of which a symbol is created. This return is “almost auto- matic but not quite . . . The imperative instinctive conformation to the influence of the environment has been modified” (Whitehead 1927, 66). Symbolic refer- ence connects thought to experience, creating a field for auto-activation. “Such symbolism makes connected thought possible by expressing it, while at the same time it automatically directs action” (Whitehead 1927, 66).37 Symbolic reference brings relationality to the fore through direct, symbolically conditioned action akin to the taste of being awake coffee provokes.
“Symbolically conditioned action is action which is . . . conditioned by the analysis of the perceptive mode of causal efficacy effected by symbolic trans- ference from the perceptive mode of presentational immediacy” (Whitehead 1927, 80). To perceive is not simply to get to know the world but to activate it and to field it, in one and the same motion. If all we have is presentational im- mediacy, we are stuck with a portion of presented duration with which nothing
Taking the Next Step	59