apparatus and its emphasis on subjecting the dancing body to its predefined parameters, the participant’s attention tends to be drawn to the workings of the system rather than to the movement’s microperceptual qualities. We catch not the dancer’s preacceleration in its present-passing, but the ways in which her movement stimulates a transformation of the video image. We want to know when and how the music is modulated and due to which kind of displacement. We watch the dancer for this shift, trying to locate the specificities of the tech- nology and its gestural syntax. This concern for the technology soon situates the dancing body on the techno-dance stage as a preformed organism onto which the technology is grafted. The question shifts from “what can a body do” to “what can technology do.” This experience of the dance performance is directly related to the limits of the system. The body movement is reduced to bits. Gestures become data for technology rather than contributing to move- ment’s experiential wholeless. Attention is distracted from the subtleties of pure plastic rhythm. What stands out is actualized displacement in the service of the software.
Such a dance-event is typical of many of those situated at the nexus of dance and new technologies.40 In such cases, technological experimentation involves a body whose movements trigger a system that can read certain kinds of dis- placements and translate them. These technological systems operate prostheti- cally and are often attached to the human body. They operate on the basis of the more-than, “enhancing” a dancing body’s capacity to create space-times of experience. These dance/new technology experiments emphasize how digital technology can foreground previously untapped dimensions of the moving body, creating a body that is sensually emergent, alive with image and sound. But are these new technologies really opening up the body to its technogenetic potential? Can the vocabulary of the prosthetic re-generate the moving body toward sense modalities otherwise untapped?
The prosthetic suggests a vocabulary of the more-than. Within this vocabulary, the “than”—the body, usually—tends to be thought as an already-formulated entity. Concepts such as the machinic (Deleuze and Guattari41), the Body with- out Organs (Artaud42), the posthuman (Hayles43), and originary technicity (Derrida44), explicitly challenge the notion that the body could be reduced to a “thanness” that would need to be supplemented to create a body that was “more- than” its organic envelope. They suggest that a body is always already more-than, refuting the logic of the “than” that would need to be prosthetically enhanced to reach its more-than state. Refuting the thanness that supposedly becomes
64	Chapter 4