prosthetically enhanced, such concepts as these suggest that the “more than” is
the very condition of the becoming-body.
What we see in dance/new technology performances is often a prosthetically enhanced body where the prosthetic “makes the difference,” contributing tech- nologically to the stage-space.45 The idea is that the prosthetic brings the body to a new level of sensation through movement. But this transformation tends to occur at the level of representation. We perceive a change in space (the image shifts), but do we feel space differently? The logic of the prosthesis as it is mobi- lized in this kind of dance trend rarely moves beyond the limits of interactivity.46 It does not move the relation: it foregrounds mediations between different sys- tems whereby one portion of the system is necessarily preconstituted. In most cases this means working with a stable body-concept. From stable to unstable and back, but never really metastable. New ecologies of experience are rarely created under these conditions.
Experiential transformation is rare. It depends on the capacity to create events that are “new” enough that they catch our attention, and graspable enough that we can relate to them. “Relate” is the key word here: we must feel these occa- sions of experience in their eventness. To simply watch an event—to remain a passive spectator to its inner workings—does not result in experiential trans- formation. Transformation entails a shift in affective tone such that the partici- pating spectator feels the performance, responding to it through an emphasis as much on its duration—its capacity to create experiential space-times—as through its content—its micromovements in the making. New technology and dance performances do suggest the capacity to produce platforms of relation that call forth new kinds of process that create new kinds of events. Yet they too often remain limited by the dimensions of the software. This tends to call forth a docile body, both in the software-conformist dancer and in the technologi- cally attentive spectator. Affective transformation depends on evolution in the machinic system such that both bodies and technological systems are altered. Technogenesis requires transduction.
The technogenetic body is infinitely more-than, but not within the confines of the prosthetic. It takes the body as pure plastic rhythm. Bringing transduction into the mix means provoking a change not only of state but of dynamic. Nudg- ing a process to a new level suggests making the body-as-event the subject of the composition. This can only occur through an embedding of some kind of ana- log process into the dimensions of current technology’s potential.47 The analog
Dancing the Technogenetic Body	65