is key to this process because unlike the digital, the analog always has virtuality embedded in its open system.
The digital—the locus of the “techne” in most new technology—operates in a much more stable manner than does the analog. Its parameters are preset, even when change in state is what is at stake. The result: you had to know in advance what could happen. This effect of preknowing what a body could do limits its technogenetic potential. For technogenesis to occur, what must be sought is a way to foreground the effects of unknowability that are virtually present in all movement. The incipiency of movement’s emergence must be tapped. This access to virtuality is not yet available to digital computation, which must con- form to actual ones and zeros. By bringing the analog into the digital mix (by intermixing new technologies with dancing bodies such that the dancing body is emergent with the technology rather than simply added to it), the technical system might tend toward ontogenesis, toward technogenetic evolution.
Evolutionary systems that build on accumulation are emerging. Still, too of- ten the “emergent” quality of the system depends on how the body moves with the software. Here’s the paradox: moving-with the software means learning to move the software. Whether you plan it this way or not, the choreography be- comes determined by the software, which qualitatively limits what a body can do. Where technology was supposed to open the body to a wider relational po- tential, it actually reduces the body’s capacity to create experiential space-time through micromovements in the making. The dancer learns to traverse space rather than to create it. For technogenesis to occur, the dance must surprise even the dancer—it must move toward relational eventfulness. For this to take place, recompositions of potential (movement taking-form through virtual recombi- nations shape-shifting into displacements) are necessary, activated not simply by or in relation to an external source but in tandem with the co-composition of an event in the making.
This is not a plea to return to a pretechnologized body, or to abandon a tech- nologically enhanced dancing body. It is an invitation to explore the potential of technogenesis for the sensing body in movement. For this, a vocabulary of process is necessary. Process here means working with enabling constraints that create the conditions for ontogenetic emergence. To experiment with a digitally enhanced post-technologized body beyond the dichotomy of the or- ganic/prosthetic is to ask what a body can do such that it is not the prosthesis that enables it—as a tool supplementing the imposed thanness of the body. The
66	Chapter 4