holes of experience.49 I do not perceive an object per se, the objectness is pre- hended (drawn out from a pastness in a way that is qualitatively new) as an event that space-times me. Through the prehension, “I” am subjectified as an instance of that particular object-event. This object-event constructs me—individuates me—as much as it is individuated by me. Such an experience is actively creative: “I” must assist the perception, fill up its holes, give it form. This giving-form happens as “I” (as individuating event) fill in the gaps of perception, giving the object a contour or a background (that “I” may not directly have perceived), situating it in a worldness that cannot be separated from it. As “I” do this, “I” am also individuating (moving beyond any kind of discrete “I-ness” or thanness) on a plane of becoming that Whitehead calls an actual occasion. “I” am not de- tached from this process, and yet “I” am only composed by it to the extent that it will initiate my infinite re-composition. I is an event.
To explain this strange refraction of experience, whereby “I” individuates in direct engagement with the individuating world, Whitehead turns to two concepts that sound very familiar—appearance and reality—redefining them through his vocabulary of process and event. He does this to attempt to dislo- cate the notion that experience is a subset of an already formed body-world. For Whitehead, the world only preexists in so far as its pastness (its virtuality) can be activated in the present. To appear does not mean to conceive the past as a world strangely available to an unsuspecting present. Appearance here is much closer to a Bergsonian concept of active recollection.50 What we call the present is composed of strands of pastness recomposing and perishing through it. This does not mean that all presents are predetermined. Quite the contrary: the pres- ent is always new, but its newness is compelled in large part by experience as it is reactivated or re-collected from the past half-second of experience. To reactivate is never simply to relive. There is no world that will remain the same after reacti- vation. Reactivation will always, to some degree, mean invention.
Focusing on perception as an activity allows Whitehead to reconceptualize the vocabulary of preformation (where perception is contained by a preformed world). Prehension for Whitehead is perception as event. An actual occasion is the expression of a particular prehension—or set of prehensions—that eventu- ally converges into a subjective form. The subjective form is not the form of the object itself. It is the coming-into-form of the ontogenetic process out of which its objectness—its eventness—comes to the fore. We never prehend an object as such. The objectness of the prehension forms in the eventness that is the actual occasion. Objects emerge in relation as events of experience. As an object begins
68	Chapter 4