to take form, its process concresces such that it becomes more stable (and rec- ognizable as such). This (meta)stability (the object having reached its eventness or subjective form) is the beginning of the inevitable perishing of the actual occasion, which creates an opening for new experience to take form. As the actual occasion perishes, it populates the nexus of pastness. The nexus as such cannot be perceived. But parts of it can (and will) be reactivated in future actual occasions.
This virtual nexus is how Whitehead defines reality. As the actual occasion perishes to give way to the next actual occasion, the actual occasion melds into a reality virtually populated by all of the positive (having been actualized) and negative (having remained inactivated or virtual) prehensions that make up our experiential worlds. This nexus of perished actual occasions—reality—can be conceived as a wealth of potential out of which possible worlds emerge. Reality is therefore always more than and less than appearance: less than what appear- ance can be, and more than what appearance is. To be experienced, reality must be activated. Even then, it is not strictly “what it was” but “how it can become.”
To think the body in terms of appearance and reality is to focus on the body’s unactualized potential as an aspect of its becoming that cannot be realized as such, but can be called forth, adding novelty to its open system. The taking-form of an individuating body is an “appearance” of the body within a vastness of unrealized potential. Technogenesis occurs at the threshold of emergence of the becoming-body where reality is pulled into appearance, and something is added to the mix. This something is a movement-with that provokes a body to become in excess of its organ-ization.
Novelty—or creativity—occurs always in the present: novelty emerges through the time-slip between reality and appearance. Because the present takes form on the threshold of appearance and reality, the present must be conceptualized as operating in the midst of the virtual becoming actualized. Prehension catalyzes reality into the movement toward appearance. Reality contributes to appearance by bringing experiential pastness into the present. This experiential pastness transduced into the present brings a certain pre- experience to the event of perception. Whitehead calls this aspect of percep- tion causal efficacy in order to remind us that what we perceive first is not an object but how it worlds. This causal aspect of perception is the directly perceived relation between objectness and experience. Activating percep- tion means activating the relation that underlies the object’s very capacity to be perceived. As outlined in the previous chapter, causal efficacy is the active
Dancing the Technogenetic Body	69