link between objectness and experience that allows the object to take form experientially.
In most organisms, to causally prehend is only one aspect of perception.51 The second phase is called presentational immediacy. In this second phase (though never quite second, since in higher organisms it is experienced in tandem with causal efficacy), perception is enhanced by the quality of experience. Whereas with causal efficacy we perceive the relation enclosure-safety upon entering a room, with presentational immediacy the color of the room emerges, a quality, strictly speaking, unnecessary to the experience of feeling safe, yet that subtly alters “safety’s” affective tonality.
As demonstrated in chapter 3, presentational immediacy is lost without causal efficacy: despite the heterogeneity of its experiential dimensions, “pure” presentational immediacy cannot comprehend or delineate an event. Qualita- tive difference must be associated with causal efficacy’s capacity to create a re- lation between event and world. Pastness is necessary for perception, even if that pastness does nothing but invite the creation of an object-world relation to be deformed in the next prehension. Novelty emerges from the productive constraints of the pastness of worldings in the present-passing. Presentational immediacy is what adds nuance to the mix. Without presentational immediacy, the world loses nuance. As with the intertwining of appearance and reality, what we know as perception is similarly a complex intermixing of causal efficacy and presentational immediacy.
Appearance is the active pulling out of experience from reality, the “giving form” of the nexus in the presentness of worlding. Reality must in a certain sense “precede” appearance: what appears is always less complex than reality itself. Yet reality can never be prehended as such, and, in this way, remains undifferenti- ated. Appearance and reality thus exist on a continuum: perception happens always for the first time through appearance, and yet appearance depends on the activation of reality. To experience is always to exist on the cusp of appearance and reality: it is to co-live the present as a pastness of emergence that will only be known in its future-pastness-becoming-present. There is no moment that precedes the prehension out of which perception occurs: the future and the past coexist through the present.
With prehension foregrounded as the key to the eventness of experience, ap- pearance and reality can no longer be delineated as hierarchies of objectivity and subjectivity. We now begin to conceive the eventness of an actual occasion as that which embodies different layers of experience that lead toward nodes
70	Chapter 4