A dancing body is a sensing body in movement. A dancer actively perceives and moves worlds such that new kinds of experiential space-times are constituted. These worldings are pullings out of an experiential ground that shifts with each of the dancer’s movements. The dancer senses and creates microspace-times in one and the same movement, individuating with each shift in ground. The ground becomes part of the shifting through which these individuations de- velop, emerging as a key aspect of the series dancer-movement-ground.
As it enters into movement, the ground is reconstituted as novelty, intertwin- ing with the capacities of what a gravitational body can do. The ground is one of movement’s enabling constraints: the dancer will always reach the ground again. Yet in the series dancer-movement-ground, it is how the ground plays into move- ment moving that is at stake. Grounding need not be a strictly vertical proposi- tion: with the inflections of movement moving, ground can become a vorticality, a horizontality. Actively prehended, the ground moves (with) the dance.
Now we find that the ground takes part in the creation of the becoming-form of dance (a curve, a spiral, an arabesque), that movement’s subjective form is always intrinsically related to a moving ground. The ground contributes to the dance as a form-finding element in the dancer’s shape-shifting process, operat- ing not as a stable entity but as an active determinant in the process. The ground is a compositional aspect of a dancer’s movement, reconstituting the ways in which space-time potentializes the moving body and vice versa. The ground does not simply ground—it dances.
A dancing ground is a technogenetic element in the dance. A technique of composition, the ground becomes a condition of emergence for the ontogenetic body. Techniques conceived this way are technologies composed with, for, and through a dancing body. They foreground the more-thanness of pure plastic rhythm. Grounding is a key aspect of technique: even without being told, the dancer learns to continuously relocate the ground as an element of experi- mental space-time, creating momentum with and through the ground toward gravity-defying re-vectorization.
To ground, when dancing, is to alter the composition body-floor such that the ground actively relocates in relation to dynamic movement. Movement here is
Dancing the Technogenetic Body	71