never simply movement-in-space. It is movement-with-space that qualitatively alters the duration of experience. To say that the ground is “beneath her feet” is to misunderstand the very mobility of groundedness.
There is a link to be made here between the dancing and the walking- to-the-bus-stop body, even if the same kinds of technique are not emphasized. The shiftiness of ground may be less palpable with respect to a walking body rushing to a bus stop, but it is nonetheless virtually present: you might, for ex- ample, experience a “loss of ground” due to a shift in the level of the sidewalk that causes you to lose your balance. The dancer is trained to defy the ground as stable surface, whereas the everyday walker tends to depend on the ground’s stability. But that does not mean that the ground necessarily conforms to the expectations of the walker.
Shifting grounds are but one technique through which a body creates space- time. Dancers can—like all other movers, only more obviously—breathe space,52 folding the space into the duration of a textured tactility that moves the air, cre- ating a sense of a clearing. Dancers can walk space, such that the dimensions of space-time seem to compress. They can sound space, such that the vectors of space-time seem to inflect, curving experience. By creating such occasions of experience, the sensing body in movement alters experiential space-time such that space-time is felt in its emergence.
This coming-into-emergence is a technogenetic experience. It is technoge- netic because it recomposes the body. This recomposition takes form through a multiplicity of techniques. For Simondon (1969), a technique is a technology of emergence (an ontogenetic technology or a technogenesis) through which new complex systems are composed. These techniques can be thought as associated milieus of potential. Associated milieus are ecologies that emerge through the very technogenesis that gives them form. Associated milieus are compositional matrices for the machinic body, in-forming the body through transductions that open the body-becoming to the metastability that provokes it to become in excess of its organism. Techniques matter form such that bodies become experi- ments in the making.
Can digital technologies create techniques capable of such technogenetic transduction? Transduction is a durational process whereby what is transformed becomes a worlding rather than simply an effect on an already-constituted system. Transduction alters the conditions of a process. Can digital technol- ogies create ontogenetic conditions for emergent body-worlds? Is it possible for new technologies to perceive the virtual effects of force taking form in the
72	Chapter 4