virtual-actual passage from reality to appearance, to feel the incipience of move- ment, to sense-with sensing bodies in movement, “catching” pure plastic rhythm in its passing? Can new technology engage the virtuality of pastness, making its effects felt? This is not simply a question “of the superiority of the analog,”53 but a question to technogenesis itself. Can technology play the virtual?
The virtual is played by a dancing body through preacceleration. Yet it bears repeating: virtuality is not something digital technologies are yet able to tap into. How to create functioning parameters for software development on the basis of something that cannot be known, that can only be felt in its effects? Technology becoming technogenetic involves inflecting the digital with virtual potential, bringing to the fore movement’s incipiency and its relational matrix. How does a movement that cannot yet be seen make itself known?
Digital technologies must work at the level of perceptual emergence. To do so, they must harness resources where they can. Technology has to become ontoge- netic. By working ontogenetically—toward technogenetic emergence—rather than prosthetically, technology must become capable of actively making sense such that it creates new sensing bodies in movement. No longer held back by the limits of the software, movement might then be able to make the technological process appear rather than simply moving to its parameters.54 To add nuance to these experiential experiments, technology must also make its failures felt, its lagging behind, its system collapse, its loss of ground. Making the digital analog is not the goal: technogenesis becomes evocative when it works at the level of invention, when its techniques make transduction felt, foregrounding the meta- stability of all moving systems.
For such technogenesis to take form, Whitehead’s distinction between ap- pearance and reality must be taken into account. The appearance of a techno- genetic body cannot be based on a body (an organic body, a dancing body) that preexists its emergence. The body must not be danced and then supplemented: it must dance its supplement.55 It must dance its novelty such that it introduces within the movement the mutability of the body’s rhizomatic networks of ac- tuality and virtuality. We must never forget: a body is never wholly actual. It is always virtually what it will have become as it interweaves the organic and the technogenetic, where the organic is as much a technology of the senses as the senses are technologies of the organic.
To sense—to experience the world amodally56—is a key way to activate the body’s relation to the world and open the body to its technogenetic potential. This already occurs in the dancing body when the movement causes the room to
Dancing the Technogenetic Body	73