space differently through an accumulation of tactile sensations coursing through the air. Felt affectively as a change in the dynamics of the emergent environment, this kind of experiential space-time takes form with and through the dancer’s body as a molecular reorganization of duration such that the dimensions of the felt are re-experienced in conjunction with the reassembling of a dispersing, re- cognizing becoming-body.
The sensing body in movement also feels time. This feeling of time happens through the activation of past movements in the present. Whitehead calls the direct perception of pastness non-sensuous perception. Non-sensuous percep- tion underscores the fact that perception begins relationally with an empha- sis on the pastness that allows us to feel the world in the future-present. This pastness (which can be durationally as immediate as the present moment pass- ing) enables the formation of causal relations between past events and current circumstances such that we feel the world ecologically before we know exactly what it is. To feel ecologically is to directly perceive the relations out of which space-time is composed. Perceiving ecologically does not imply giving meaning to form, but forming environmentally. To say we perceive non-sensuously—or ecologically—is to emphasize how the world creates modalities of perception even as modalities of perception world. Ecological durations are not linear— they are richly layered, their nexus ripe with reality, their actual environments populated by appearances.57
To think technogenetically, we must keep in mind that we perceive not an object-as-such but how the object merges with experience: the object is its expe- riential function. Objects are novel because their conjunctions are new, not pre- existing them, but immanent to them. Objects, prehended, are individuations within an ecology of practices wherein perception is key. Non-sensuous percep- tion is an activity of relation whereby the composition of an event takes place through a re-uptake of the virtual (immannce) into the actual (appearance). Through non-sensuous perception we directly perceive relation. In Whitehead- ian terms, we prehend the affective tone—the relational concernedness—of an object-becoming-world.
A sensing body in movement is activated both sensuously and non-sensuously. Perception occurs on a continuum of relation. To make sense technogeneti- cally, the coupling dance/new technology must ask how a technology can make relation felt. This means technology must operate both sensingly and non- sensuously, moving between the virtual (immanence) and the cusp of the actual (incipience). This may be done, for instance, by working with a delay through
74	Chapter 4