which the room is durationally recomposed. Imagine, for instance, a dancer cut- ting across the space, shifting space-time’s tactile borders through a succession of movement-layers that compile a thick database that eventually alters the sound in the room. The sound is not altered by a given movement but by an overload in the system. The sound can now be perceived as a sensory experiment tech- nogenetically emergent with perception’s own half-second delay. Experience is overlaid rather than delineated through a representation of movement=sound in a distinct one-to-one relation. Now, the system recomposes the room even as the dancer composes with the system. The coupling causes the room to shift, to move, to breathe. As this happens, the intensity of a shift in space-time is felt. This is felt not through the sound shifting as such but through a slight difference in affective tone. The room reverberates around its color, its sound-quality, its becoming-form. Now, the spectator feels a concern with the space. This concern provokes a new kind of attention: a perception of the tonality of the interval. A new composition begins to unfold, one that may be related to an ontogenetic shift in the participating body of the spectator. Technogenesis: two bodies re- composed at different durations in the sensing spectrum.
If technology can recompose a body beyond the level of sensuous percep- tion—beyond the directness of an operation that makes something seen, such as an arm movement translating into a video image—bringing the relational quality of experience to the fore, technology becomes technogenesis. In a technogenetic event, more than displacement or representation must be perceived. What must also be felt—by the dancer first and foremost, but also by those participating in the performance as spectators—are the microperceptions through which the displacement is activated. Many of these perceptions are non-sensuous because they work at the level of the barely there, below the threshold of sensuous percep- tion. Rather than the sensory perception itself, we must feel the relation out of which the movement event emerges. This experience is affective and cannot be separated from the creation of space-times the technogenetic event calls forth.
Technogenesis contributes concern to the event that does not end with the performance: the affective tone’s residue lingers, provoking adjacent forms of experience, many of which remain virtual. Technogenesis always involves more that the datum, more than the sense-presentation, more than the present. Tech- nogenesis makes the process felt, foregrounding the duration of the individuat- ing machinic body.
Technogenesis cannot be premapped. How then can it work alongside a tech- nological system whose parameters are set? The ontogenetic coupling of digital
Dancing the Technogenetic Body	75