ground into the steadiness of the walk involves a backgrounding of the ground in this instance. The backgrounded ground is a participant (rather than a coor- dinator) in the transportational vector that carries the movement. The ground appears only insofar as it is expressed as something else (steadiness of move- ment, for instance).58
The prehension “ground” is indissociably linked to the transportability of its becoming-function. It is not that ground is transport: it is that it ap- pears in the function of transportability. As long as nothing gets in the way, the ground will continue to be backgrounded in the transportational vector ground-walk-bus-stop. But things are bound to get in the way: you smell the garbage in the alley, which causes you to lose your footing and trip. Through malfunction, you “lose” your ground and the ground appears, foregrounded, horizontalizing you, altering your sense of space-time. Suddenly, ground no longer contributes steadiness-in-movement. Facedown: the bus stop is momen- tarily backgrounded. The event has shifted and with it the ground. Now you see your reflection in the puddle, and this makes you feel self-conscious. You prehend a selfness that was part of neither the transportational vector nor the appearing groundness. And then: you recall your lateness, and a new actual oc- casion begins to take form where the ground is once more backgrounded. You quickly rise and resume your walk. The ground reenters the transportational vector, contributing to the hurriedness of the movement that will take you to- ward busness. The hurry is foregrounded now, but this does not mean that the ground is stable.
Each event creates a different ground. Space-times of experience are always linked to shifts in ground. Ground is part of the technogenesis that makes events felt. Every appearance grounds differently. And every worlding is ontogenetic: it creates holes through which we dance, opening the way for movements that technogenetically invent worlds.
What is real and what appears exist in a complex network of movement mov- ing. How movement moves is relational. When we move the relation, we never begin with a gesture. We move into gesture. What a body can do is character- ized by its capacity to make sense beyond a vocabulary of the already-there. An ontogenetic body has an infinite potential for technogenesis. New technologies must dance to pure plastic rhythm.