Eternal objects are less objects than foldings-into. They make ingress into the actual occasion, lending the event its color. This folding is a multiplying of the singular. It folds not many parts, but many ways, to infinity. “Dividing endlessly, the parts of matter form little vortices in a maelstrom, and in these are found even more vortices, even smaller, and even more are spinning in the concave intervals of the whirls that touch one another” (Deleuze 1993, 5).
The corpuscular society that is the nexus of actual occasions is infinitely po- rous, each actual occasion a world fluid with the potential for relational devia- tion. This potential for deviatory foldings is the actual occasion’s futurity. It is the way in which the occasion continues to resonate even after it has reached its satisfaction and become, for all eternity, what it will have been. The event has taken form and yet its form-taking folds with eternal objects that continue to populate the universe, not as objects, but as more folds, as elastic nodes in the process of becoming.
Eternal objects give taking-form its resonance. When an occasion culminates its process, it perishes. How a perished event can be regathered into experi- ence depends on the ways in which its qualities extend into the future-passing of felt experience (via non-sensuous perception). Were perishing the absolute end of the occasion, there would be no futurity to an event, no becoming across experience. Whitehead’s actual occasions are not closed in on themselves as are Leibniz’s monads. Through the ingression of eternal objects, actual occasions remain virtually open to qualitative resonances across the nexus of becoming. Eternal objects continue to color events in the making even across their perish- ings, subtly altering how future events emerge. The perished occasion’s fluidity of curvature is apparent in the ways in which it continues to provoke new kinds of individuation.
Color is an example of an eternal object. Color changes the hue of an event, giving it a tone that casts the event beyond its own satisfaction toward the fu- ture foldings of colors intermixing. Think of Robert Irwin’s Who’s Afraid of Red, Yellow and Blue (2007). The experience of this installation goes far beyond the memory of the six horizontally laid colored panels. It is an event for color. Who’s Afraid of Red, Yellow and Blue reaches across the immediateness of its presen- tation of primary colors to actually color future experience.59 The exhibit gives itself to perception, attempting not to “show” us color, but to allow color to appear for perception in its primariness and its secondariness (when we look through the yellow panel at the red one, we see orange, and the blue becomes purple). What we experience is a strange perceiving-with-color that colors our
Perceptions in Folding	79