perception not only for this event but for all future instances of the active per- ception of red, yellow, and blue. Who’s Afraid of Red, Yellow and Blue makes perception actually appear the way it already does virtually. Having experienced the extraordinary sensation of feeling space color in the active passage of prima- riness to secondariness, I will never again think I am seeing “just red.”60 What was virtual before this experience has now actualized in my experience of more- than-redness.
Eternal objects folds through contrast. The quality of the event is not simply its redness, it is the hue of its neither blueness nor yellowness. It is how shades come together to create an affective tonality that folds into experience to make the event inseparable from its quality. What we perceive as quality is the activity of folding into perception.
“A ‘relation’ between occasions is an eternal object illustrated in the complex of mutual prehensions by virtue of which those occasions constitute a nexus” (Whitehead 1929/1978, 194). The sharing of qualities opens the world to rela- tional potential. Each event is contemporarily independent from all other events even as it holds within itself—via its infinite foldings—the potential to create an associated milieu. This associated milieu does not change the actual form of the occasion, but it does alter its resonance. It foregrounds a quality that would otherwise be backgrounded. These kinds of mutual prehensions give life to the already-quasi-formed, emphasizing the capacity for morphing inherent in all events of the future-past.
Contrast in Whitehead does not mean the equal juxtaposition of two ex- tremes. It is “that particularity of conjoint unity which arises from the realized togetherness of eternal objects” (Whitehead 1929/1978, 229). Contrast is the activity of foregrounding or backgrounding that makes certain qualities stand out, creating what Whitehead calls emergent evolutions.
Emergent evolutions are the individuation of relational fields composed by the activity of small perceptions [les petites perceptions] folding. These microper- ceptions are perceptions without objects: hallucinatory tendencies in the sense that they express nothing but the emphasis on the quality of becoming. They do not give us a body fully formed or an object-in-place: they fold perception into a becoming-body of movement creating the emphasis of quasi formation that is relation in the making. Small perceptions move the relation event-nexus into infoldings of perception.
“Small perceptions are as much the passage from one perception to another as they are components of each perception” (Deleuze 1993, 87; translation
80	Interlude