modified). Small perceptions are like what Arakawa and Madeline Gins call im- aging landing sites: they qualitatively site perception beyond the register of per- ceptual actuality. They are virtual recomposings of the force of perception. They feel the world worlding, and they contribute to it, this contribution altering the dynamics at work in the relations they call forth. They regather perception, re- composing the body toward its appetite for seeing-with.
Eternal objects fold into an event as its qualitative differential. They inflect the event’s final form without necessarily changing its content, creating nuance within it at the level of small perceptions. “It is the differential relations among these infinitely small actuals that draw into clarity; that is to say, that constitute a clear perception (the color green) with certain small perceptions, obscure, and evanescent (the colors yellow and blue)” (Deleuze 1993, 90; translation modi- fied). They determine the character of perceptions in folding.
Perception operates on the threshold of consciousness. The eternal objects folded through prehensions act as perception’s differential, opening the event of perception to an associated milieu of nexus-occasion that in-gathers its quality. Conscious perception acts on the quality of perception’s relational potential. What we perceive is not the thing as such but its capacity for relation. Perceiving first and foremost the capacity for relation means that a stone is perceived, not as an object-as-such, but as the feeling of hardness in the hand. Perception is the feeling-with of an event forming.
This is key to memory. Remembering a feeling involves activating relation by bringing into appearance a feltness in the present passing. A memory is not an unfolding of the bottled past in the neutral present. Remembering is the activation of a contrast that inflects the differential of experience unfolding such that the then is felt as an aspect of the nowness of experience. This is a relational event: it foregrounds the presentness through the past, emphasizing the quality of difference in their contrast. The event of the memory is how it takes form in the present, its hue activated through the contrast past-present, then-now.
Perception folds in an infinite play of foregrounding and backgrounding. Eternal objects are nodes of relation for this elastic process of pulling in and out of experience’s continuum. Perception moves-with these openings toward changes in nature occasioned by “minuscule folds that are endlessly unfurling and bending on the edges of juxtaposed areas, like a mist or fog that makes their surface sparkle, at speeds that no one of our thresholds of consciousness could sustain in a normal state” (Deleuze 1993, 93). Unfolding is never the opposite of
Perceptions in Folding	81