Despite his desire to secure results for publication in scientific journals in the name of the advancement of knowledge—something his early graph-writing machines allowed him to do with processes such as measuring the pulse—he quite soon found himself ensconced in a universe of movement for which there was no adequate source of measure. As the movement experiments focused more on the processual (especially those of gases, but also his experiments with locomotion), he began, despite himself, to delve into the exploration of incipi- ency, graphing not only curves of movement but curves in movement.62 These curves are a radical change in Marey’s approach in the sense that they cease to work solely as representations of movement-passed and become fascinated with movement-passing. By the end of his life, although still committed to measur- ing movement in quantitative scientific terms, what stands out in his work are photographic images of experiential flows, elastic forces, quasi-virtual percep- tions not of the movement as content but of the incorporeal surfacing of the microperceptual.
This chapter looks at how plotting movement “actually there” but imper- ceptible to the eye was slowly transformed in Marey’s work toward the invoca- tion and mapping of forces. As forces that could not be seen (but could be felt) emerged, instead of denouncing them as unviable for quantification, he created new techniques for their measurement. “How does a bird’s flight interact with the resistance of the air?” he might ask. The machine devised to inform his cu- riosity would answer this first question, only to propel him to explore further and inquire how force could be visualized. This desire to measure in turn ex- pressed itself in a continual reworking of perceptual techniques. Machines that began as simple mechanisms for the study of a particular movement became instigators for creating new machinic processes to sense movement’s force. This compulsion to make the force of movement-passing appear would then pro- pel the construction of yet another movement-sensitive machine. This fascina- tion with the machinic processes of experimentation situates Marey’s research along an uncanny continuum between positivist analysis—the exploration of an object of study divorced from its environment, and what William James calls radical empiricism—a pragmatic investment in the relation between objects and worlds.
In true positivist form, Marey believed in the mechanics of what could be proven. “Science has two obstacles that block its advance, first the defec- tive capacity of our senses for discovering truths, and then the insufficiency of language for expressing and transmitting those we have acquired. The aim of
Grace Taking Form	85