scientific method is to remove these obstacles” (Marey, qtd. in Braun 1992, 12– 13). Experimentation through visualization always preceded documentation for Marey. His first concern was to find ways to develop insights into movement through representations made visible early on by his graphic machines, and later by chronophotographs. His aim was to find quantitative modes of analysis to make us see what seeing obstructed. This paradoxical investment in vision is one of the astounding aspects of Marey’s work on movement. Although he never explicitly mentions the role of perception in his experiments, his work specifically brings to the fore the complexity of mechanisms of perception as linked to movement. The images Marey creates are both given to and engaged in perceptual experimentation.
Marey’s legacy, I believe, is the invention of perception machines that, in Paul Valéry’s words, “draw vision drawing.”63 In this chapter, I focus on the progres- sion in Marey’s life from the creation of machines that perceive bodies moving to experimentations with “drawing perception drawing.” I am interested in how Marey develops modes of experimentation that play with the very mechanisms of perception, and how he creates machines that captivate perception’s endur- ance across states of durational becoming. Uncannily, what Marey’s experiments foreground is the very mechanism of perception itself: that to see is not to re- compose an already-composed form. His work makes apparent that to see is to create-with the force of a movement taking-form, where what we see is a composition of holes (intervals) and wholes (pure experience,64 duration65) that together create a field of forces around which perception takes form.
Perception’s force-field is a complex surface of as yet undifferentiated experi- ence. We see not an object but its activity of relation. We see holes: contours, edges, active intervals moving. We feel wholes: experiential duration not yet divided into actual objects. We see not only what we actually look at but what we remember ourselves seeing. What we remember ourselves seeing is actual- ized through non-sensuous perception, which refers to how an experience of pastness—past seeings—finds its way into our present as a force of potential. It’s not just that we see what we’ve already seen—it’s that what we’ve already seen contaminates what we feel we see and re-composes what we’re actually not seeing.
When we feel the force field of perception what we (virtually) see is an in- terval. We cannot actually perceive the interval, and yet there is no perception without it. The interval is a relation not yet actualized for actual perception. To see is not to see the interval—it is to see-with it, to compose-with relation.
86	Chapter 5