“The eyes never take in a scene at one go. They rove over objects, detecting edge. The gaze must pass and repass to hold the edge, because edge is actually in continual variation, constantly struck by variations in light and shadow which in any given instant blur its boundary” (Massumi 2006). Co-constituted by a turbulent worlding, vision is not a capturing of the world but a captivating by it. “Even under the most stable of conditions, the eyes add variation through their own micromovements, which never cease. Sight comes of the duration of these variations. Vision finds the edge over and over again, through its variations. The edge’s constantly returning to the eye under variation is what draws out the con- stancy of its form. Visual constancy is of variational return” (Massumi 2006).
To see is to feel-with movement moving. Vision is not a passive receptive surface—it is a duration expressed. “The retina is an active surface gathering durational variations into the clarity of a line which was never seen as such. In any given instant, the line receptively speaking was a blur. Its clarity emerges through duration as a function of variation” (Massumi 2006). Vision produces the very novelty Marey’s animated images also seek to convey. The experience of the imperceptible is exactly what vision plays with, animating not a stable surface but creating-with the very potential of the not-yet. There is no seeing that is divorced from movement.
Marey’s experiments with movement are thus always also experiments with perception. By experimenting with the body in movement, Marey actually pro- vokes the sensing body in movement, inventing machines for the transduction of feeling into sensing. He wants to perceive the incorporeal, and to do so, he must push the senses to the edge of what they can do. He must create techniques through which the senses’ virtual tendencies are transformed into actual pro- cesses for re-visualization.66 What we virtually feel must become actually sensed. Marey’s machinic experiments do not teach vision to see that which is imper- ceptible. They foreground the activity of perception that is at the heart of vision. Marey’s movement experiments are, in the end, experiments with sensation.67