creating assemblages that generate open passages between sensing bodies and machines: an ecology of practices.
Machines such as Marey’s are more than the combination of their parts. What is at stake in these kinds of machines is their technicity, the ways in which they create associated milieus—active intervals—that open experimentation to evolution. Each experimental process creates an evolution toward a particu- lar relational series—that of the blood-heart-graph, that of the foot-sensor- ground—that incites Marey to devise yet another technique, not only for the measuring of actualized movement, but for the stimulation of virtual move- ment.68 Each experiment also contains a measure of unpredictability—since new combinatory series are always taking form—that makes novel demands on the machinic process. While machines might otherwise be understood as pas- sive mechanisms for the measuring of activity, I believe that Marey’s machines are relationally entwined with the experiments he devises. In fact, the machines become his mode of experimentation such that what he devises through them itself becomes “machinic.”
Deleuze and Guattari define the machinic phylum “as materiality, natural and artificial, and both simultaneously; it is matter in movement, in flux, in varia- tion, matter as a conveyor of singularities and traits of expression” (1987, 409). To render something “machinic” is to inscribe it in a process that couples it with the environment out of which it emerges. The sensing bodies in movement Marey studies are not conceived as separate from his experiments. They are inte- grally connected to the machines he creates. As a key aspect of the living process of experimentation, movement thus becomes an interstice of body and machine in a practice of continual invention of what a machinic body can do.
The tweaking of systems to create experiential evolution that informs meth- odological processes is a form of radical empiricism. It creates novelty out of relational matrices. This “adaptation-concretization is a process which condi- tions the birth of a milieu that, instead of already being conditioned by another already-given milieu, is conditioned by a milieu that exists but virtually before the invention” (Simondon 1969, 55; my translation). Invention is not simply the creation of a new machine to better capture movement in space but a jump to a different register whereby the machine begins to operate ontogenetically. More than a sum of its measuring parts, the machine generates potential, reg- istering not simply data on movement but ontogenetically adding to itself such that it is always intrinsically in the process of reinventing what a machine— or a technique—can do. “We could say that concretizing invention creates a
88	Chapter 5