techno-geographic milieu . . . that is a condition of possibility for the functioning of the technical object” (Simondon 1969, 55; my translation). Marey’s technical objects are co-constitutive of experimental process. They create an associated milieu of body-movement-machine whereby new conditions for experimenta- tion are invented.
Marey’s machines are evolving techniques, themselves open to experimen- tation, working not to fulfill goals already written into their functioning but toward the invention of new milieus. These new milieus are in turn conditioned by the experimentations they provoke, always reconstituted according to the re- sults toward which the experiments are geared. For example, when Marey seeks to understand the movement of the walk, he discovers that in order to get a clear picture of the movement itself, he must background everything except the walk- ing. To do so, he develops various techniques of appearance/disappearance. He calls this simplification, situating movement in these cases as an extraction from the surrounding environment. In this series of experiments, Marey narrows the body-apparent to its simplest form for rendering its movement, choosing to highlight only certain points of the body as it moves, allowing the actual (the visible body) to slide into the virtual (the body unseen), such that what is actu- ally perceived is the incipiency of movement moving. As the quasi virtual takes shape perceptually (the movement foregrounded instead of simply the body moving), what we experience is far from a dialectic of inside/outside that would separate environment and body: Marey creates an uncanny dance of appearance disappearing. We feel the palpability of the imperceptible. Body, movement, and environment have become one. Here, the trace of preacceleration is almost ac- tualized, felt through the visualization of the flow of movement moving. It is as though he had not simply foregrounded how movement works but given move- ment back to movement, “drawing vision drawing.”
Marey does not immediately arrive at “drawing vision drawing.” Early experi- ments show a more restrained experimentation. “Study of a Man’s Walk with a White Rod along His Spinal Column (1886)” is an example of an experiment that does not go beyond displacement’s representation. In this experiment, Marey backgrounds the human body such that the vertical lines of regular, ca- denced intervals of movement’s displacement in the walk are foregrounded. He does this by placing a white rod at the body’s back to foreground the movement of that one area. This experiment results in a series of vertical lines organized in an equal cadence, emphasizing that walk’s displacement. The representation
Grace Taking Form	89