The images of air and smoke Marey creates at the end of his life (1898–1901) build on this curvilinearity of movement moving, taking it to an even higher level. These are images of movement disturbance that play with the timeline of form’s composition. These movement experiments with gaseous fluids are per- haps the best evocation of the poetry of the almost-seen in its many stages of mi- croperceptibility. Two images stand out. In the first one, the smoke is traversed by a trapezoid shape that causes a violent undulation of the linear smoke-lines, transforming the composed grid-like surface into a fire-like feeling. To com- pose a form into a feeling is like making the holes felt even while conserving the whole of undifferentiated perception. To simply say we perceive a shape—a distorted trapezoid—would be to work at the level of deduction. I believe what Marey does is qualitatively different: this work makes the quasi chaos of sensa- tion felt.
To experience the feeling of a form is to experience force taking form. In the 1901 series of movement experiments with air and smoke—using the machine with 57 channels69—Marey moves different shapes through smoke. Each movement of the shape through the smoke strands produces a different current. Through these images of forms-passing, we actually see air taking shape. We see the air and feel the form. Marey is once again inventing ways of seeing.
Despite his concern that the senses “often conceal the essential [and] lead to mistakes,” Marey’s final experiment captures sensation in the making. As always, his interest in the amplitude, force, duration and regularity of the shape of move- ment lead the way toward new techniques for the foregrounding of the otherwise imperceptible. The whole of his work until then had been concerned with show- ing how forces could be deduced by a movement-curve in order to relay back to the visible the trace that is imperceptible of movement taking form. In this 1901 series the turbulence of preacceleration is most resplendent. In these images, moving-through shifts from extensive to intensive passage. These are among the most graceful images, where movement-through feels like movement-with. The
Grace Taking Form	93