metaphor: it is an actual feeling of the almost perceptible virtually seen. In these becoming-bodies of movement, what expresses and is expressed makes mani- fest the virtual node of the in-between. What we see is not an object, a person, an animal. What appears is the expression of body-movement relation—the interval—brimming over with microperceptions, with microexpressions never quite actualized. What is expressed is the variational field of movement. What is produced is sensation or feeling, affective tone.
To look at Marey’s photographs is to feel them. Feeling is an amodal expe- rience that is a passing-between of sense-modes. Perception is constituted by feeling-tones. Perception lures feeling, coalescing visual experience into a force of feeling. Affectively, feeling works on the body, bringing to the fore the ex- periential force of the quasi chaos of the not-quite-seen. This not-quite is the quality of potential we perceive in many of Marey’s movement images.70 These images do not represent movement, they move-with the movement of the feel- ing taking form. They are affective because to see is to feel-with, to participate in the intensive passage from the virtual to actualization. What is amodally felt, perceived-with, is the microperceptual appearing at the threshold of sight, but not actually seen. Working at the limit of a body’s capacity to actualize, this perceiving-with affectively reworks what a body can do.
Affect passes directly through the body, coupling with the nervous system, making the interval felt. This feltness is often experienced as a becoming-with. This becoming-with is transformative. It is a force out of which a microper- ceptual body begins to emerge. This microperceptual body is the body of rela- tion. While affect can never be separated from a body, it never takes hold on an individual body. Affect passes through, leaving intensive traces on a collective body-becoming. This body-becoming is not necessarily a human body. It is a conglomeration of forces that express a movement-with through which a rela- tional individuation begins to make itself felt.
Affective duration is felt in Marey’s experiments through the image’s force of composition. This composition is not a translation: it is a transduction of movement into sensation through the prism of the image, foregrounding the quasi chaos of movement’s incipiency. This mode of seeing is not strictly a looking-for—a looking “for” the form passing through, for instance—it is a looking-with. It is a looking-with because not only do we feel the movement of the images, we feel the holes through which the images leak. In the smoke images, it is as though the smoke were still filtering through our experience of looking. This is what Bergson means when he says that “a world well perceived is
96	Chapter 5