When we see-with, what we perceive is the feeling of intensity. We feel intensity without seeing its actual form. The feeling of intensity coexists virtually with what actually appears. Intensity is of duration, not measure. Intensity has no extensive magnitude—it cannot be conceived as separate from pure experience. Positivism’s shortfall is its tendency to attempt to capture intensity’s extension for a quantitative system of measure.
In the idea of intensity, and even in the word which expresses it, we shall find the image of a present contraction and consequently a future expansion, the image of something vir- tually extended, and, if we may say so, of a compressed space. We are thus led to believe that we translate the intensive into the extensive, and that we compare two intensities, or at least express the comparison, by the confused intuition of a relation between two extensities. (Bergson 1910, 4)
Intensity is anathema to quantification. It concerns the elasticity of move- ment. Intensity in-gathers the imperceptible toward a movement-feeling. This movement-feeling is the experience of force taking form. Bergson writes, “At first [grace] is only the perception of a certain ease, a certain facility in the out- ward movements. Since easy movements are the ones which prepare the way for others, we are led to find a superior ease in the movements which can be fore- seen, in the present attitudes in which future attitudes are pointed out and, as it were, prefigured” (1910, 11–12; translation modified). What we experience as grace is an emergence of future ease in the present movement. A graceful move- ment is one that feels like it already carries the fullness of the movement-passing within the preacceleration of the movement taking form. Time collapses into an intensity of process, and what we feel is not the object of the experience but the flow of experience itself.
Marey’s images of the smoke filaments are capsules of intensity that fore- ground the process of perception taking form. The movement of the air emerges for perception as a graceful dance that couples the outlines of the forms passing through the smoke with the sensation of their passing. We feel the grace of this passage. The future of movement moving feels like it is taking form in the pres- ent. To create an experience of the future in the present requires a foregrounding
Grace Taking Form	97