The radical empiricism of Marey’s  machinic  experimentation  can  be felt in his continual reinvention of techniques not only for the capturing of movement-passing but for its ghostly evocation in its various quasi-chaotic states of becoming. William James defines radical empiricism as “an empiricism [that] must neither admit into its constructions any element that is not directly experienced, nor exclude from them any element that is directly experienced” (1912, 42). For James, radical empiricism is radical because it begins with the actually imperceptible—relation—and asks how relation produces events of knowledge. In radical empiricism, there is nothing prior to direct experience, and no way to work outside of experience’s incipient relationality. “For such a philosophy, the relations that connect experiences must themselves be experi- enced relations, and any kind of relation experienced must be accounted as ‘real’ as anything else in the system” (James 1912, 42). In Deleuzian terms, this means that what is foregrounded is not the object, the word, the concept but the assem- blage through which ecologies of practice emerge.71 This process of assembling is never individual—it is collective. Speaking of enunciation as an assemblage, Deleuze explains, “The utterance is the product of an assemblage—which is always collective, which brings into play within us and outside us populations, multiplicities, territories, becomings, affects, events” (Deleuze and Parnet 1987, 51). Radical empiricism experiments with assemblages such as the associated milieu, an environmental in-between that never preexists the force of its taking form. “This is assembling: being in the middle, on the line of encounter between an internal world and an external world” (Deleuze and Parnet 1987, 52).
For Marey, there seems to be no contradiction in the pursuit of positivism through experimentation: Marey sees experimentation as a necessary tool for the production of quantifiable results. The criteria of positivism—“a rejection of metaphysics and in its place an affirmation of facts derived from observation; the proposition that science constituted the ideal form of knowledge; and the under- standing that scientific explanations of phenomena would, by definition, lead to one or more laws of which an individual phenomenon is an observed instance” (Braun 1992, 13)—are amply met by the experimental methodology he pursues. And yet, as is becoming apparent, there is also within his work a fascination with the milieu itself and the intensities it is capable of producing. This can be observed in his magnificent sculptural rendition of the seagulls, Flight of the Seagull: 25 Images per Second (1887), which brings to life the in-between stages of the bird’s flight. If Marey were interested only in the quantitative analysis of the movement of the bird’s wings, why would he have the resulting image sculpted in bronze?
Grace Taking Form	99