Numbers express this productive tension between positivism and radical empir- icism. Counting is one way to understand both the difference and the continuity between measure and intensive magnitude. Bergson explains:
It is not enough to say that number is a collection of units; we must add that these units are identical with one another, or at least that they are assumed to be identical when they are counted. No doubt we can count the sheep in a flock and say that there are fifty, although they are all different from one another and are easily recognized by the shep- herd: but the reason is that we agree in that case to neglect their individual differences and to take into account only what they have in common. On the other hand, as soon as we fix our attention on the particular features of objects or individuals, we can of course make an enumeration of them, but not a total. . . . Hence we may conclude that the idea of number implies the simple intuition of a multiplicity of parts or units, which are ab- solutely alike. . . . But now let us even set aside the fifty sheep themselves and retain only the idea of them. Either we include them all in the same image, and it follows as a neces- sary consequence that we place them side by side in an ideal space, or else we repeat fifty times in succession the image of a single one, and in that case it does seem, indeed, that the series lies in duration rather than in space. (1910, 76–77)
The question of how numbers number is central to Marey’s experimentation. On the one hand, his process is one of counting as a collection of units. Each movement is mapped so as to be identical (in time and space) to the preceding one. What is measured is not the intensity of the flow but its calculated sig- nificance as located on a grid that maps space-time as preexistent. Interesting information can result from such measuring, such as the fact that at one point in time during the gallop, all four of the horse’s legs are off the ground, or that in a bird’s flight the resistance of air plays a key role.
Grace Taking Form	101