But this is not the only kind of numbering, nor is it the only counting at work in Marey’s experiments. Marey also works with intensive magnitudes, where what is numbered is individuation rather than self-identity. When the trapezoid moves through the smoke, it qualitatively alters the shape of the trapezoid, the smoke filaments, and the air in the surrounding environment. It creates atmo- sphere, altering the experience of space-time. The counting here is not a quan- tification of elements. The air can only be known in its transformation. What is measured is as much beauty or feeling as it is shape. This is a transductive operation, whereby different endurances take hold, inviting different kinds of processes to take form.
Marey’s work can be seen as engaging actively in the study of movement as divisible (quantitative measure) and as indivisible (duration). Different kinds of numberings produce different results. As Marey’s work demonstrates, both the quantitative and the qualitative are necessary for the invention of new processes for experimentation. While Marey only chooses to give academic credence to one aspect of his method, the intensive magnitude felt in his visual results defi- nitely seems to play a role in the subsequent designing of new techniques for measurement.
The issue of intensive magnitude (multiplicity in duration) versus extensive magnitude (quantitative multiplicity) is akin to the question of divisible and indivisible movement in Bergson. When movement is counted, and when its counts are considered equal to one another in both form and content, it is ren- dered divisible by the fact of its being pulled out from its previous durational indivisibility. This is necessary for all quantitative research. The difference be- tween positivism and radical empiricism is not necessarily to do with the act of counting (radical empiricism can also seek results) but with the issue of how the point of departure is conceived. Whereas positivism begins with the divisible number as a given, radical empiricism works from the premise of relationality that foregrounds the indivisibility of duration (as pure experience). When radi- cal empiricism counts, it begins in the middle (milieu). “We must distinguish between the unity as experienced and the unity which we set up as an object after having thought of it, as also between number in process of formation and number once formed. The unit is irreducible while we are thinking it and num- ber is discontinuous while we are building it up: but, as soon as we consider number in its finished state, we objectify it, and it then appears to be divisible to an unlimited extent” (Bergson 1910, 83).
102	Chapter 5