This is Marey’s quandary. On the one hand, he is drawn to the satisfying re- sults of concrete division. On the other hand, he is moved by the interval. His work posits clear distinctions between movement and body. And yet he never begins the process of experimentation from outside the experiment: he experi- ments from the middle. He posits the body as preconstituted, and yet creates experimental devices that foreground the body’s permeability to forces, its tran- sitions coloring its becoming-states.
Marey’s crossing-over from positivism to radical empiricism and back can be felt most strongly in his chronophotographic images, which experiment with the idea of overlapping states of transition. Even as Marey defines his results ac- cording to precise coordinates of movement in time and space, he continues to devise ways of perceiving the transition from incipiency to displacement as the interplay of relational movement, thus creating a moving space-time in a dura- tionally multilayered environment. Through his chronophotographies, Marey ultimately explores the animation of space-time where different layers of bodies in transition interweave. This experiential overlapping of states is what Bergson calls pure succession, an interplay of fields of intensity and qualities of movement melding that produce the feeling of the force of form.
By now it is apparent that Marey’s work provokes a tension between radical empiricism and positivist science. His images invite a seeing-feeling of how the drift between measure and duration takes hold. Although he begins with mea- sure, the feeling of duration lingers long after the viewing. Duration is endur- ance in and of the present-passing. In the smoke images, it is felt at the elastic point where the object and the smoke meet, where the becoming-gas of their passage is experienced. The present-passing is not of the object: it is the affective tonality of the becoming-form of the experience. In Marey’s images, this sense of becoming is felt through the ghostly imprint the movement moving leaves on the living trace of the present-passing.
I see Marey vacillating between creating a body of work that begins and ends where movement stops (quantitative analysis based on measure), and creating a practice that works from the milieu of experiential experimentation (qualitative exploration working through duration). Marey in essence creates an associated milieu of positivism and radical empiricism. Associated milieus can never be distinguished from the techniques of their functioning: they operate and de- velop through the relations out of which they are constituted. In Marey’s case, his strategies for developing and documenting processes are key both to how results are mapped for scientific publications and to how processes are enhanced
Grace Taking Form	103