attached to each wing, the graphic machine and the bird were able to commu- nicate. Measuring frequency of wing movement in flight, Marey discovered that “the duration of the lowering of the wing is generally longer than that of its elevation” (Mannoni 2004, 18). As he had presumed (against all scientific specu- lation at the time), the movement of the bird’s wings was not directly regulated by the musculature—it was in fact intrinsically dependent on the resistance of the air acting on the wing. This discovery would have consequences in the field of aviation. But not before Marey stopped attaching birds to machines! As can be surmised, creating the conditions for measuring movement was quite a chal- lenge as long as the bird continued to be restricted to a predetermined circuit. This was the impetus for his later move toward chronophotography, a practice that would allow Marey to develop a sense of the bird’s movements that was more closely linked to its actual tendencies in flight.
“The veritable perfecting of machines, that which we can say elevates the degree of technicity of a machine, corresponds not to a production of the au- tomatism, but on the contrary opens up a margin of indetermination within the machine itself ” (Simondon 1969, 11). The dynamic ground out of which Marey’s work evolves is an associated milieu for the rethinking of the rift be- tween the sensuous and the non-sensuous, between the sensing experience of the present-passing and the non-sensuous future-feltness of the past. Each of Marey’s experiments evolves out this dynamism. The processes for vision he creates are platforms for relation for the perception of perception. Perception becomes machinic in the sense that it is no longer a stable given in the process of exploring movement, but itself becomes a milieu through which experimen- tation takes place. In the exploration of margins of indetermination for the ma- chinism of perception, what Marey continuously foregrounds is the imperative to make the machine sensitive to change. From experiments of movement to experiments with movement, Marey’s work begins to foreground how percep- tion fields the relation between incipiency and displacement.
Techniques of relation such as those Marey invents are abstract machines,72 abstract because what they can do is outside the realm of the prethought. Mar- ey’s abstract machines for perception operate through the emergences they pro- voke, forecasting futurity in the making. “When we speak of abstract machines, by ‘abstract’ we also mean ‘extract’ in the sense of extraction. These are montages susceptible of putting into relation all heterogeneous levels that move through them” (Guattari 1995, 55). Marey’s machines extract the imperceptible, bringing
106	Chapter 5