it to the fore not as material for measure but as ephemera for experience. We will never actually see incipiency passing through preacceleration to the interval of movement moving, but we can experience it. This is the richness of Marey’s im- ages, which extract the unknowable and force its recomposition with the actual such that a becoming-form begins to act on the incorporeality of its recompos- ing. Abstract machines do not impose form onto matter, they are processes (of) in-formation, continually, rhythmically recasting the heterogeneous processes out of which they themselves are emergent.
Marey’s flying machines never actually manage to fly. This does not seem to dissuade him. Still convinced that he will find a way to transform a bird- like instrument into a flying machine, in 1874—as vice-president of the Société française de navigation aérienne—Marey opens his laboratory and materials to Victor Tatin, a young engineer who had already built a few flying birds pro- pelled by elastic springs (that crashed to the ground). Due to his earlier graphic experiments measuring the movement of air in bird flight, Marey knew that the faster the bird, the more air resistance on its wing, the more solid its trajectory through the air. Slower birds have to move their wings faster to increase the force of resistance. Marey continued to believe that this was key in the development of a flying machine.
Marey’s deductions on air resistance in flight influenced Tatin’s aviatory exper- iments. In his 1876 paper entitled “Travaux du laboratoire de M. Marey” (Braun 1992), Tatin presented his most successful flying machine, which operated from the principle that the force of movement in flight is directly proportional to the force of resistance. Eventually, however, in the way of transmutation that took hold of each of Marey’s inventions, Tatin’s flying machines evolved beyond their originary concept (and the firm belief of Marey’s that flying machines would be close to birds in their form) and moved toward what Alphonse Pénand already knew: the best flying machines would not be big birds but aeroplanes.
Although his research on birds did not ultimately lead Marey closer to creat- ing a flying machine, it did invigorate his work on movement, producing some of the most extraordinary photographs of his career. In 1883, with the help of a photographic gun (a precursor to his chronophotographic apparatus), which revolves at different speeds on a stable axis, Marey deepened his research on the movements of birds. The series he eventually develops out of these experiments is well known, entitled Flight of the Seagull: 25 Images per Second (1887). Later sculpted in bronze (see earlier image), this series is particularly remarkable in its ability to bring to life the intensive passage from form to force. Working with
Grace Taking Form	107