gliding, Marey’s experiments become explorations of the force fields inherent in the intensive relational movement of flying. Intensive movement is key, he thinks, to understanding how gliding relates to the flight of the bird. Perhaps it is best not to study the movements of the wings themselves but to explore how the air moves around the bird? This transition in his experimentation to the study of the movement of gases will take another decade to come to fruition.
Representation in three dimensions becomes central to Marey’s approach at this point in his career. This period—which marks a shift in his practice from graphic machines to photographic processes73—is characterized by his dissat- isfaction with two-dimensional representations of vertical flight and his fas- cination with Eadweard Muybridge’s rapid-movement stills,74 which he finds reprinted in a magazine entitled La Nature.75 Stunned by Muybridge’s images, Marey decides to create a machine that can capture the in-between of “true at- titudes of movement, those positions of body in unstable balance for which no model can pose” (qtd. in Braun 1992, 47). Despite Muybridge’s clear influence on Marey at this juncture, what emerges from Marey’s process is qualitatively very different from Muybridge’s work. While Muybridge’s images look like cin- ematic stills, it is the movement’s interval and duration that is palpable in Mar- ey’s images, rather than the actual stills themselves. In Marey’s work, duration is felt, whereas in Muybridge, duration is divided. Muybridge’s images do not incorporeally flow into one another, and are in fact often shuffled for narrative purposes.
Open images produce open systems: Marey’s process cannot be stalled. With his developing chronophotographic methods, Marey continues to create image-event after image-event, each richly textured and durationally rhythmic. Sketches of futurity emerge from the chronophotographic processes. More and more, they do not represent movement: they live it. The life of movement Marey experientially captures chronophographically is increasingly movement’s virtual passage, its momentary stoppings always elastic, its intervals intensive, felt in the transitions from preacceleration to preacceleration.
A singular written expression of Marey’s approach to incipiency and intensive duration, and with it a slight admission of his interest in aesthetics, appears late in his career. He writes: “Sometimes, this superposition of images can be used; it gives a larger intensity to the images that represent moments of lesser velocity of the object in movement” (Marey 1894/2002, 58). In contradistinction with Muybridge’s photographs that are divisive multiplicities standing still, Marey ac- knowledges that his images are concerned with altering durations: “The multiple
Grace Taking Form	109