co-present images—imbricated images—in a chronophotograph do not all have the same status, despite the fact that their intermittent measure, their shutter speed, stays uniform” (Didi-Huberman 2004, 239). In this brief passage, it seems as though Marey himself considers his images as potential planes of duration. They are not simply sequences but sequential machines.
“It was been said that my work is ‘always the same old thing.’ This assessment
. . . is the greatest reward for my efforts,” writes Marey (qtd. in Dagognet 1992, 63). Marey’s perception machines for movement in the making are repetitions with a difference. Each machine does something new, yet retains a similar prob- lem: to map the invisible. The combination of elements tends to be quite similar from one machine to another: a sensor attached to the object of study or used to measure the force of movement, a conductor, and an inscriber. Yet “the same old thing” is more a force of transduction than it is a crude repetition of the same.
Consider . . . the repetition of a decorative motif: a figure is reproduced, while the concept remains absolutely identical. . . . However, this is not how artists proceed in reality. They do not juxtapose instances of the figure, but rather each time combine an element of one instance with another element of a following instance. They introduce a disequilibrium into the dynamic process of contraction, an instability, dissymmetry or gap of some kind which disappears only in the overall effect. (Deleuze 1994, 19)
Marey’s process of repetition and difference leads to transductions where movement machines become movements of thought, which in turn become ma- chinic perceptions. Just as his ten seagulls flying is an intimate conjunctive play of what air and bird can become, his machines are associated milieus through which previously unthinkable assemblages take form. The machine becomes the event for the next rendition of movement’s elastic curvature, a technique for the co-constitution of the technique-feeling-thought series that is the foundation of experimentation.
Blanchot speaks of “releasing the part of the event which its accomplish- ment cannot realize” (qtd. in Deleuze and Parnet 1987, 73). Marey does not simply create movement-events: his movement experiments create experiential space-times. He operates on more than one level of experience at once, work- ing with the virtual becoming of elastic forces and with the actual becoming of curvatures of movement. Marey creates out of a dynamic ground that propels eventness to take form visually. His work offers a bringing-to-expression that continuously exceeds its original parameters for measure.
Grace Taking Form	111