When duration makes itself felt, a hesitation occurs whereby we perceive the fluid force of the world’s becoming. Whitehead calls this force of feeling presen- tational immediacy. This perceptual experience is a relational movement that worlds even as it culls from its worlding the qualities and effects of this dynamic process. Presentational immediacy is perceptually felt duration. What is felt is movement’s lingering, its hesitation. This is what we actively perceive in Marey’s smoke-filled images: the strange, ethereal passings-through, foggy expressions of movement’s potential to linger.
We feel the elasticity of perception. We feel the nuance, the n-dimensionality of the elastic that propels the experience toward the very unknowability of fu- ture sensations. Agitations, excitations, contractions are felt in the feeling of force taking form. To look at Marey’s images is to feel the microperceptual: the perceptibility of the almost.
The elasticity of the almost that is felt so palpably in relational movement as two bodies dance together reemerges here as an activating trace of what percep- tion can do. Perception and representation are no longer a sustainable dichot- omy: they are different rhythms of a singular event of relation. What moves as a relation in relational movement moves as a perception in Marey’s images.
Intuition is the connecting thread. For Bergson, intuition is a mode of knowl- edge that distances itself from measure, asking not how something can be di- vided but how it can be experienced. Intuition relates one concept to another, finding threads, for example, between the becoming-movement of relational movement and the becoming-image of Marey’s chronophotography, seeking not to tie them together but to intensively connect them in their capacity to open thought. Openings of thought create movements of thought. Marey’s opaque transparencies move with perception. From imposed curves to immanent cur- vature, perception becomes elastic, and the image becomes graceful. Virtually present, grace makes perceptible the preacceleration inherent in all movement. The grace of Marey’s images is their capacity to make the interval felt. We feel the preacceleration through which movement takes form. We feel elasticity even though we cannot see it as such. We experience the imperceptible.