virtual becoming, its preacceleration. Movement’s preacceleration is expressed in animation through the active interval between frames. Thanks to the persis- tence of vision, the interval between frames remains imperceptible as such, the moving-image apparently a seamless unity across the cuts of the frames. Yet the interval is nonetheless active in the watching: it is a virtual event in which the spectator unwittingly participates. We do not actually see the interval, but we do feel its force as it infolds into the perception of movement moving.
In his work, McLaren explores the feeling of movement moving. He asks: How do we activate this feeling, and keep it active in perception? To make incip- iency appear, McLaren privileges movement over “content”: “For me, the ‘purest’ cinema is that which communicates the essential of information, thought, and sentiment by movement itself, and allows no other factor or almost to intervene” (qtd. in McWilliams 1990, 17; my translation). To allow no other factor to inter- fere ensures that movement remains the subject of animation.
The interval is never neutral. It holds in abeyance the traces of movement-passing and prepares movement-coming. That we do not see move- ment as such in the interval suggests that to experience the feeling of move- ment is not to view a displacement. It is to sense the force of a movement taking form through its preacceleration. This is what McLaren means when he says he seeks to “film the essence of movement” (qtd. in Bastiancich 1997, 102; my translation).
McLaren draws movement such that it takes consistency not on the frame itself but across frames. Thus, movement is felt not in a pose but in its experi- ential taking form across time and space. Keeping such a complex process of animating alive involves creating different techniques for different animating scenarios. McLaren was very pliable in this regard, creating forms of anima- tion that evoked the complexity of the kinds of movement he sought to create. Sometimes he drew directly on the film stock; sometimes he filmed the pro- cessual traits of a painting in progress; sometimes he filmed with stereoscopic techniques; sometimes he used an optical printer. Each of these and many other techniques were used to explore the consistency of the virtual interval—move- ment’s preacceleration—as it expressed itself through the experiment of the “how” of movement moving.
Animating movement is not restricted to drawing in McLaren’s work.76 For McLaren, sound plays an equally important role, often providing the rhythm for the moving intervals he draws. “For myself, indeed, with an abstract film the most pleasing forms are those which come closest to the music. There must be
Animation’s Dance	115