visual equivalence” (McLaren 2006). Begone Dull Care (McLaren 1949) works this way, its sound animating the surface of the film. In this eight-minute short, the music of the Oscar Peterson Trio carries the becoming-forms of the images shifting across frames, themselves folding into the musicality of the sound. The visual forms are resonances of color and line more than they are figures. In one particularly evocative section, the colorful screen shifts to black and white, the complex colors morphing into the simplicity of a line. It is as though the con- sistency of the image were reshaped by the quietening of the sound. The mini- malism of the foregrounded line is felt as an animation of the music’s affective tonality. The line is perceived through the sound more than it is seen visually, shading into a dot, then reappearing as a line dancing with another line, melding into a musical singularity, then decomposing into the traces of its passing, the piano dancing its formation, the activity of the line appearing and dispersing over a black background with slight traces of color that momentarily dot the screen, only to disappear almost as soon as we’ve felt a change in tone.
This dance of the line’s transformation evokes a quality in McLaren’s work that resonates with his desire to make animation dance. His focus is never on the completed image but on the ways its transformation alters the process of experience. “It’s constantly changing,” he writes of the process of animation’s dance, “You’re repeating a drawing with change and it’s the change that’s the interesting part” (qtd. in Richard 1982, 32). Drawing-with, McLaren plays with the potential for animation to become animate form.
Greg Lynn defines animate form as the activity of force within movement’s animation, distinguishing it from the action of movement’s displacement. For Lynn, animate form “implies the evolution of a form and its shaping forces; it suggests animalism, animism, growth, actualisation, vitality, and virtuality” (1999, 9). The process of animating form involves working with the force of the incipiency of movement’s preacceleration rather than with the addition of
116	Interlude