movement to already-executed poses. Lynn uses naval design as an example, “where the abstract space of design is imbued with the properties of flow, turbu- lence, viscosity, and drag so that the form of a hull can be conceived in motion through water” (1999, 10). Animation is the how of movement’s potential to alter the force of form.
Pas de deux (McLaren 1967) is the most evocative of McLaren’s films on dance, and an important instance of animate form. Similar to Marey’s later work on movement, in Pas de deux McLaren uses a chronophotographic apparatus to focus not on movement’s poses but on the activity of the interval through which movement’s preacceleration can be felt. “I had always been interested in the ballet in its purest form, stripped of narrative and anecdotal conventions. I like movement for movement’s sake. Abstract ballet” (McLaren 2006).
Abstract ballet divests ballet of its fixity, foregrounding the experience of movement’s taking form as accompanied by the techniques implicit in move- ment’s execution. Abstract ballet does not devise a movement that negates bal- let’s precision. Rather, it foregrounds the quality of the interval that emerges between the rehearsed, ordered, precise techniques of balance, strength, and extension that define ballet. In this regard, McLaren’s exploration of the affec- tive potential of balletic precision is close to the work of the Frankfurt Ballet as choreographed by William Forsythe, where what is foregrounded is not the hold ballet has on movement, but its potential to use techniques to transduce the precision of pose into the qualitative open-endedness of force taking form. Foregrounding the affective tonality of ballet’s technicity gives McLaren’s film its grace. Pas de deux is an experience of grace taking form.
A few sequences stand out. In the first, a solo woman dancer is lit up against the black screen. Her body is outlined by the darkness of the background, the light almost piercing through her, lending to her form the quality of an evanescence.
Animation’s Dance	117