supports the ballerina in slow movements, a dance that involves a solo for each and a final coda in which the couple dance apart and together—traditionally represents relation through the choreography of the partner’s coupling. The his- tory of relation’s role in the pas de deux is key to McLaren’s exploration of the intensive passage from incipiency to displacement. Rather than foregrounding the representation of coupling in the dance, McLaren uses the relation between the dancers to make felt the rhythms of passage from the virtual to the actual and back. He plays with the beyond of coupling, making felt the way movement moves the relation. By the end of the film, the feeling of relation has become so intensive that the separateness of the bodies no longer stands out. The individual dancers have melted into the interval, relation itself foregrounded.
In traditional ballet the coupling often feels choreographed and standardized. What McLaren achieves in Pas de deux is the transduction of the coupling into the force of individuation taking form through the quality of movement tracing its future-anteriority. This individuation is not the taking-form of a single indi- vidual. It is the essence of movement felt as the becoming-body of dance.
In the last section of the short film, after the coupling has disintegrated into the intensity of relation, the incipience of movement becomes so intensi- fied that what is foregrounded is no longer dancers dancing, but the interval itself. We watch as becoming-bodies of force taking form individuate, emerg- ing through the traces of blurring movement meeting movement. Animation’s dance becomes crowded with preaccelerations, intervals of movement forming not held to the precision of the balletic pose, but fluid in the transformation of the actual into the virtual. In a steady rhythm of transformation, the choreo- graphed pas de deux morphs from an ordered geometry into a fluid topology, the becoming-spiral taking over the shape of the dancers’ bodies, proposing an individuating curvature poised on the cusp of becoming.