Immanent movement transduced into the opacity of the stone surface. A physi- cal transcendence.
Dawn begins to rise as the next body appears, the camera dancing around it and then panning out. The violins begin to play, lending an eeriness to the encounter between the statues. Bodies, face to face, seem to flow away from one another, meeting and dissolving. The next body makes itself felt in an at- mosphere of smoke, as though rising from the ruins. From stone to flesh, the between of night and day, of appearance and disappearance, creates the first living being: the stone body of the discus thrower begins to move. We watch the magnificent transformation from incipiency to displacement as the dis- cus thrower merges with and then detaches himself from the sculptural re- mains. The camera caresses this body-emergent, fascinated with its smooth surface becoming-flesh. The body has been created, and it is already more than one.
Throughout Olympia, the protagonist is not the body as such but its atmo- spheric coming to life in relation to an always emergent environment. Think of the discus thrower: slowly, the camera circles, the body’s movements taking shape in the becoming-form of a spiral. The body isn’t yet moving—the earth is moving. As the spiral opens, the body begins to move, its preacceleration tearing flesh from stone. He moves, but only insofar as the whole image moves: what we experience is a pure movement (what José Gil calls a total movement77), a move- ment that qualitatively alters a body’s capacity to become.
The discus thrower moves the image, altering how body, flesh, and image in- teract. He provokes what we could call the first series of the film, the ball-javelin- discus series. Here as elsewhere, Riefenstahl does not foreground a particular Olympian body. She creates a mobile series that makes apparent how movement is infinitely more than its displacement, and how a body emerges from the in- cipience of movement moving. Bodies, for Riefenstahl, are what happens in the between of image and movement.
In this first series, we encounter a body-experience more than a body as such. This body-experience is created through a thrownness that makes preaccelera- tion felt. Each shot in the ball-javelin-discus series focuses on the act of throwing. From one throwing movement to the next, we feel the incipient force of move- ment moving. The camera moves not from body to body but from throwing to throwing. This repeated thrownness keeps a single body from individualizing. Bodies moving co-individuate with a world that becomes thrown.78 This force of becoming provokes an experiential shift that calls forth a becoming-multiple.
122	Chapter 6