What holds the series together? Ball-discus-javelin and arms-grass-hoop are held together by the becoming-body of a biogram. The emergence of a biogram is not the creation of a static body. It is a virtual node out of which a bodyness can be felt. This feltness of a body is an affective experience. It is the tendency of a body to become that the biogram makes palpable. With the appearance of the biogram what is foregrounded is the affective tone of the event rather than a body as such. The becoming body has no fixed form—it is an exfoliating body. It creates space through both intensive and extensive movement, appearing as such only momentarily in its passage from incipiency to the elasticity of the almost. The body in Riefenstahl’s work is not given but produced—produced not in its entirety but in passing, in movement, not from one shot to another, but from one series to another.
The biogram is closely related to Deleuze and Guattari’s concept of the dia- gram. The diagram is defined as the conjunctive force that in-gathers an art- work’s intensity. Deleuze and Guattari build on this concept of the diagram, suggesting that a diagram is in fact an abstract machine, that “constitutes and conjugates all of the assemblage’s cutting edges of deterritorialization” (1987, 141). By this, they mean that a diagram is a technique or series of techniques for the open conjugation of intensities. The diagram is not content driven—it operates at the interstices of composition where the virtual is felt as a force of becoming. From diagram to biogram is a passage through a different abstract machine, one connected to the techniques of appearance and disappearance of a becoming-body. In the case of Riefenstahl, I foreground the biogram because the abstract machine of recombination in her work is one that works specifically on the body.
The series in Riefenstahl are conjugated by biograms that provoke body res- onances. They introduce new ways of composing a body. The biogram is what conjugates rhythms of appearance-disappearance for the becoming-body. These are rhythms of speed and slowness, rhythms alive in the nuances of movement moving. Riefenstahl’s biograms move across consistencies, creat- ing textures rather than forms. Through the biogram, we experience exfolia- tion, not a ball; flight, not a javelin; tangles, not limbs. We feel the quality of elasticity before we experience form. The biogram is the becoming-body’s intensive edge that makes bodyness felt at the conjunction of image and movement.
From Biopolitics to the Biogram	125