“our bodies penetrate the sofas upon which we sit, and the sofa penetrates our bodies” (1970a, 28), Riefenstahl insists on thinking the image relationally, fore- grounding the role of movement in the very creation of the image-concept. She underscores this important stylistic device by refusing to simply add move- ment—as a secondary operation—to a preexistent image. For Riefenstahl, interpenetration of strata is key. Boccioni’s becoming-sofa functions like Rie- fenstahl’s becoming-body. They both work with the idea of movement as topo- logical transformation, a folding-in and through.
Riefenstahl’s images foreground dynamic form. Dynamic form is not movement-of but movement-with. Boccioni uses sculpture to explore the po- tential of dynamic form. Even a material as seemingly opaque and dense as marble, he suggests, can become-movement. This becoming-movement occurs first within the matter-form itself. Boccioni’s investigations into sculpture ex- plicitly challenge hylomorphism, the belief that form is the finite element in the shaping of matter. Hylomorphism’s claim: once shaped, matter stills—immobile cut. Boccioni resists this view, exploring instead how what seems immobile may instead be engaged in a kind of absolute movement, a virtual becoming that has its own velocity, a velocity felt not only in the infinite transgressions of both matter and form (in their continual becomings) but also in the dynamism of their coming together. In his “Technical Manifesto of Futurist Sculpture 1912” he writes: “We must take the object which we wish to create and begin with its central core. In this way we shall uncover new ways and new forms which link it invisibly but mathematically to an external plastic infinity and to an internal plastic infinity. This new plastic art will then be a translation, in plaster, bronze, glass . . . of those atmospheric planes which bind and intersect things” (1970, 52). He calls this physical transcendentalism.
Physical transcendentalism is not the annihilation of matter. What could be more material than sculpture? Physical transcendentalism is a way to think matter in movement. It decries the tendency of stabilizing matter into finite form. In physical transcendentalism, movement becomes the plane of imma- nence through which the becoming-body emerges physically. This physicality is transcendental because the body transcends the immanence even while the movement itself remains immanent. Physical transcendence is a way of con- ceptualizing the mattering of immanence, the cusp of its becoming actual when what appears is not the body as such but its biogram, the becoming-body at the threshold of appearance/disappearance.
From Biopolitics to the Biogram	129