between thinking/speaking and doing/creating. Not only did this facilitate cre- ation and communication across fields of inquiry during the event itself, it also provoked a continued exploration among many participants of ways to orches- trate future participatory events that challenge the active/ passive model of speaker/listener or artist/spectator. For the events in the Technologies of Lived Abstraction series, new forms of collaboration are conceived not simply as lo- cales for experimentation but as matrices of cultural becoming. We want experi- mentation to function as much at the collective level as at the conceptual level.
In August 2007, we hosted our second event, “Housing the Body—Dressing the Environment.” The force of thinking still emanating from “Dancing the Vir- tual” had by then created its own momentum: the participants from “Dancing the Virtual” were active collaborators in the fashioning of this second event.
For “Housing the Body—Dressing the Environment,” we attempted to shape the intensity of our collaboration by sending an open call for “platforms for rela- tion,” relational techniques proposed and carried out by teams of participants who had either already participated in “Dancing the Virtual” or who would be- come new members of the series of events. “Housing the Body—Dressing the Environment” built on the concerns outlined for “Dancing the Virtual.” It was dedicated specifically to a collective exploration of the dynamic cross-genesis of the body and its constructed environment, where the environment is taken to include not only the architectural surround but also technological and cultural extensions of it. From selected platforms, we developed skeletal structures for relational improvisation through sound, skin, textiles, movement, architecture, and new media. These platforms were conceived as pragmatic points of depar- ture for thinking/doing throughout the event. The way they took form through- out “Housing the Body—Dressing the Environment” made apparent the force of well-designed creative techniques to further the thinking of doing and the doing of thought.
For Henri Bergson, as for theorists of “embodied cognition,” the relation be- tween perception in all its modes is one of reciprocal reach-and-return. This cross-genesis of action and perception opens onto thought. Every perception is already a thinking in action. Every act is a thought in germ. The premise of all Sense Lab events in the Technologies of Lived Abstraction series is that there is a generative nexus between action, perception, and conception that can be modulated from the environmental side. In constructing our environment we not only house the body, we build modes of embodied experience and thought.
What Moves as a Body Returns as a Movement of Thought	3