portions of duration—events—out of which a nexus of experience is composed. This nexus is not an “out-there” that predates the event. The event is the move- ment of the image, its withness of movement moving. Wholeness of movement upsets the linearity of time: planes coexist and intersect.
The Deleuzian movement-image provides a vocabulary for thinking the indivisibility of movement cinematically. Movement in the movement-image is not image + movement: it is mobility-becoming-image. Thinking the movement-image sculpturally through Boccioni provokes a movement of thought that encourages us to conceive the surface as a fold rather than an area. “Sculpture must . . . make objects live by showing their extensions in space as sensitive, systematic, and plastic” (Boccioni 1970b, 61). Mattering form implies a becoming-plastic that, in Boccioni’s words, is sensitive and sys- tematic. This pliability of experience is one with the sculptural matter, with its becoming-movement: sculpture becomes a moving-image. If we insist on think- ing the image sculpturally—which does not necessarily mean to give it three di- mensions, but rather to give it plasticity or topology—the mobile cut can begin to be conceived topologically as well. This allows us to make the shift from a linear action line of shot-cut-shot or frame-movement-frame to the interpen- etration of series. It is important to remember that even poses are mobile— movement moving need not refer to extensive movement. As with Boccioni’s sculptures, the mobile cut moves intensively, creating rhythms between rest and movement. Movement-images catch mobility in its passing.
On a topological surface, all cuts are mobile: the mobile cut defies strict suc- cession. A mobile cut demands of the surface that it be infinitely mobile. It does not presume that movement begins only once the frames meet, assisted by the projector. Movement is folded into image, becomes image: there is no fold that cannot be folded again. Pastness envelops futurity, bleeding time into movement and movement into time. The duration—the space-time—of a topological sur- face is intensively extensive, continually recomposing along new curves.
Dynamic form is not of an order of poses or privileged instants. Dynamic form is produced through the spectre of immanent movement. Yet dynamism, it bears repeating, is also material. It is force felt— incorporeally material, physi- cally transcendental, intensively mobile. Virtually there. For Deleuze, the cin- ematic image foregrounds dynamic form. This is because the image can never be fully constrained: it moves, and it will continue to move, even beyond its actual movement. It is virtually there long after the prehension of its poses. Any pose, any stilling of the image, is simply another durational stratum in the complex
From Biopolitics to the Biogram	131