do not fill a definite region of space. Rhythm exfoliates, creating movements out of associated milieus that work as thresholds for the becoming-body. At these thresholds, potential is stored. To say that potential is stored means that not all that is proper to rhythm actualizes.
Rhythm can never be measured as such: it operates conjunctively. It is the and . . . and . . . and . . . of the rhizome that never finds a final territorialization. Rhythm provokes a milieu that is capable of accelerations and decelerations be- yond the control of the apparatus that would seek to structure it. For Dalcroze as for Riefenstahl, rhythm becomes body. Dalcroze writes: “It is impossible to conceive a rhythm without thinking of a body in motion” (1921, 82). Movement produces rhythms as rhythms produce bodies. The biogram in Riefenstahl is the becoming sculptural of rhythm that creates a body-becoming. Rhythm: the durational modulation out of which a biogram is born.
For Boccioni there is an implicit connection between rhythm and force. Force- lines are what bring materiality to life. In Riefenstahl, they move intensively, folding topologically, transmutational across series—from grass to hoop, from thrownness to sky—expressing the potentialities of matter. Matter becomes force before it becomes form. Modeling the atmosphere is not about creating an outside for a sculpture. The inside-outside dichotomy must be dissolved: with rhythm there are only folding surfaces. Transmutation is vital to this process, because rhythm is not about content: “Rhythm is not on the same plane as that which has rhythm” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 313). Rhythm is a force for mattering on the cusp between the actual and the virtual, felt both actually and virtually in the between of the series, causing a change of direction, a jump, a syncopation. Rhythm is that which propels the force of movement (the energetic throwing—of the discus, the javelin, the ball) and not the displacement as such. Rhythm takes hold in Olympia not where the bodies can be differentiated as individuals but where movement becomes body and body becomes movement. Rhythm in Riefenstahl is the n + 1 of the body in movement, the more-than that creates—tangibly, affectively—a becoming-body.
Take two scenes. The first is the one in Triumph of the Will mentioned earlier. This scene opens on the stone eagle of fascism, blending slowly into the swastika that is its base, and then reaching behind to the moody backgrounded sky. The orchestral sound builds and conjoins with a long shot that captures the dense straight lines of the standing soldiers choreographed expertly in the name of the fascist machine of organization. A wide central path is left open and down this path we watch as three bodies walk toward the flames, Hitler, Himmler, Hess.
From Biopolitics to the Biogram	133