disequilibrium, provoking a slight fissure in the interval between the planes of composition and organization. And then an incredible shot: a sea of flags. A rhythm all its own, the flags create a moving landscape, a play of texture and force that never quite takes form as a unified entity. In the creation of this plane of consistency, the image is immediately transported onto the plane of physi- cal transcendence. As the camera pans out, we feel movement marching to the rhythm of pure charisma.
There is a tension here and elsewhere in Riefenstahl’s films between the God- infused transcendence of the fascist era—which is an opening onto an idea of a body beyond all bodies—and the physical transcendence proposed by Boc- cioni—the incorporeal body-becoming. While the Hitlerian transcendence seems to take hold through the filming of the large choreographed composi- tions, forcing a continual recasting of the plane of consistency into a plane of organization, thereby combining transcendence with disciplinarity, a resolutely physical transcendence also operates in Riefenstahl’s work, dominant by the time she makes Olympia. In Olympia, rather than moving between the choreo- graphed disciplined body to the overbody of the decisively non-Nietzschean su- perman, the biogrammatic plane of consistency for the most part shifts toward a transcendence that excites or expands matter rather than reorganizing it into an immanent disciplinarity. And yet these two tendencies do sometimes overlap in her films, generating a complex intertwinement of her work with the Aryan superbody ideology of the fascist regime.
A similar shot a few years later from the second part of Olympia underscores this tension between disciplinary transcendence of physical transcendentalism. This scene focuses on dancers choreographed by Mary Wigman performing movements inspired in part by Dalcroze’s Eurhythmics. The scene begins with the camera focusing on a few women dancing, their arms waving as their bod- ies seem to dissolve into one another. The plane of consistency appears through the dancing arms moving in contrapuntal rhythm with the sky. The swaying of their arms gains in consistency as the camera begins to pan out first horizontally and then vertically. The bodies become atmospheric in a way reminiscent of the earlier arms-grass-hoop series, the immanent movement of arms holding pins swaying together not unlike that of the flags in Triumph of the Will. Women- dancing-with-pins merges into the swaying of a multiplicity. Like the earlier shot of the moving flag series, this series is constructed on a plane of immanence that moves toward physical transcendence. Its movement moves us beyond the material into the physicality of its virtual tonalities even as it remains material.
From Biopolitics to the Biogram	135