This is a micropolitics in the making that in turn fashions us: we refit the body for new forms of life, cross-dressing its self-expressive potentials.
Relationscapes: Movement, Art, Philosophy was conceived amid the move- ments of thought generated by the Technologies of Lived Abstraction series. Like the events, it is a book that is immediately collaborative.5 I wrote it with the force of movement moving. Every aspect of the Sense Lab’s events-in-the-making folded into the writing, provoking exploration into how thought works, where creation begins, what constitutes novelty, what a politics of movement might do, and how thinking through movement can alter the force of thought.
Sincere thanks are due to all those who have fueled our initiative to create movements of thought. Here in Montreal, I am indebted to those who make the Sense Lab the singular node it is. For your generosity, humor, and brilliance, thank you Brian. For your passionate dedication to thought-in-the-making, Nadine Asswad, Antoine Blanchet, Tagny Duff, Nasrin Himada, Valérie Lefeb- vre, Paul Mélançon, Céline Pereira, Chiara Paganini, Stamatia Portanova, Felix Rebolledo, Troy Rhoades, Bianca Scliar-Mancini, Alanna Thain, and Jon Yu deserve a special mention. Thanks also to all who participated in the first two events of the Technologies of Lived Abstraction event series and to those who are involved in designing the two final events, “The Society of Molecules” and “Generating the Impossible.” We couldn’t experiment without you!
Much of our thinking happens across various kinds of divides. I want to thank those who make these divides fluid, fielding difference with curiosity.
For your close reading of the manuscript in various stages, and your regener- ating enthusiasm about all things processual, thank you Ken Dean, Sher Doruff, Brian Massumi, Steven Muecke, Andrew Murphie, Luciana Parisi, Philipa Roth- field, Steven Shaviro, Philip Thurtle.
For making thinking and doing coincide politically, artistically, and philo- sophically, a warm thanks also to Michelle Barker, Lone Bertelson, Jean-Claude Bustros, William Connolly, Luc Courchesne, Joao Da Silva, Scott de la Hunta, Toni Dove, Pia Ednie-Brown, Nora Heilmann, José Gil, Heidi Gilpin, Michael Goddard, Steve Goodman, Catherine Herrmann, Yvan Joly, Thomas Lamarre, Bruno Latour, Andre Lepecki, Derek McCormack, Anna Munster, Sally-Jane Norman, Christopher Salter, Monique Savoie, Michael Shapiro, Christine Shaw, Isabelle Stengers, Sha Xin Wei.
For your generous openness toward improvisation and relation in dance, thank you Mireille Painchaud.
4	Prelude