Boccioni writes: “Let’s split open our figures and place the environment inside them!” (1970b, 63). The commanding form of a work makes felt the effects of the virtual by making the inside-out of a work felt. Work becomes environmen- tal, no longer distinct from the “where” of its taking form. The environment becomes embedded in the work, foregrounding new centers of activity through which the work continues to evolve. This evolution is less an actual taking-form than a virtual shape-shifting that alters the qualitative dimensions of what an image or a work can do to shift with and through time. From content to line of force. This is what Boccioni means. Make the environment “part of the plastic whole” (1970a, 18). Not environments of but environments with: worlds for the taking whose force lines produces infinite surfaces that fold, drawing out not the form as such but its potential for transformation.
The becoming-body in Riefenstahl is a force to be reckoned with, not least of which because it reinvents space-time. It is a force for the future. Certainly, its dynamism remains imbued with the charisma of Hitler’s fascism. Yet it is also more-than: it becomes beyond the boundaries imposed by the era of its inception. It is more dangerous, more powerful, more evocative than what has been called a “fascist body” or an “aesthetic of fascism” because it is infinitely more malleable even than the regime itself. While the regime instantiates rigid planes of organization onto its population, thereby creating a continuous shift between the biopolitical and the disciplinary, Riefenstahl’s bodies barely require the disciplinary. She begins there, certainly, working with the trained bodies of the military and of Olympic athletes, yet departs from their individuality as bodies of a certain time and space toward the creation of a becoming-body of absolute movement. The body she creates is beautiful, but not only in its human dimensions—it is a body-becoming-sky as much as a body-becoming-limbs. It is a plane of consistency of swaying grass opening onto sculptural flesh, the becoming-body emerging in the between. The becoming-body of the not-yet.
Take a later image of Riefenstahl’s: the Nuba woman, black, statuesque, glossy, photographed against a blue blue sky, captured slightly from below. This is an- other instance of the extraordinary physical transcendentalism with which Rie- fenstahl creates and out of which no straightforward disciplinary or state racism can be delineated. There is a racism, I believe, but one that is immanent to the becoming-image, to a space-time without predetermination, a racism active on the biopolitical plane of populations, affective tones, and compositional series. What emerges: a becoming-multiple of the body that does not normativize a body before calling for its physical transcendence.
From Biopolitics to the Biogram	137