In Riefenstahl the body becomes “an involuntary medium for the expression of thought” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 85). The movement of thought Rie- fenstahl creates around becoming-bodies foreshadows a new aesthetic that is immanently political in its consequences. Riefenstahl is right to say she does not stage ideological political encounters. Her politics are not of the ready-made kind. They are affective politics. Through the shifting biograms of her work on the body-becoming, Riefenstahl opens politics to affects that resonate through bodies not unlike contemporary political tendencies. Such affective politics draw from certain aspects of fascism, but are much more powerful in their cre- ation and mobilization of images than is Hitler’s so-called fascist aesthetic. Un- like Hitler’s aesthetic, the affective politics in Riefenstahl’s work do not have to concern themselves directly with disciplining the elusive body. Riefenstahl creates (with) affect. She creates with affect’s incipient movement. Riefenstahl thus creates a becoming-body that transcends its simple location, continuously moving toward an infinity of recombination. Conjunctively, biogrammatically, Riefenstahl creates the ultimate body without organs. Pure plastic rhythm.
This pure plastic rhythm is an immanent form in every sense. Rarely por- trayed in its complete organicity within the frame, the body in Riefenstahl moves across milieus through conjunctive rhythms that create movements of thought. These movements of thought are not metaphorical. They are virtually present in each biogram, in each recomposition of shifting series. They are much more potent than any content-driven politics. Whereas content-driven politics offer the opportunity to stage resistance by producing or reacting to an object of con- tention, Riefenstahl’s work propels thought into recombination. Affectively, her work draws us into space-times of experience that are not yet composed around a specific body. It becomes our task to compose from the edges of expression to the body’s virtual center.