productive of the potential of the more-than that is palpable in the rhythmic planes of consistency biograms call forth.
Riefenstahl produces not specific politics or bodies as such but milieus of potential. The biograms she foregrounds are rhythmically created in an archi- tectonic of audiovision where the sound never precedes the image, and where affective tone takes precedence over content. This is even the case in her editing: when Riefenstahl creates a work, she catalogues the film not strictly according to content but according to what she calls “atmosphere.” Riefenstahl inscribes rhythm directly into the process of editing, already emphasizing in the precom- position phase the image’s skyness, its laughter or sadness, its darkness. The protagonists in Riefenstahl’s films are affective tone, lines of force, polyrhythms. Her techniques are never created outside or in addition to the body in move- ment. Her shots are events.
These techniques are also preinscribed in her camera work. In the marathon sequence in Olympia, for instance, Riefenstahl attaches cameras to the bodies of the runners to impart the sense of rhythm of their running and then overlays the image with an orchestral movement so quick and powerful that it seems to qualitatively alter the running: through the relation between audio and image, it feels as though the runners are moving more slowly. As the music increases in crescendo, the cadence of the runner dissolves such that a rhythm emerges that no longer conforms to the measure of the steps hitting the concrete. We feel a thrownness of experience that is neither the running as such, nor the music per se. What we prehend is their internal mixing, their infolding. This mul- tiple rhythm creates an affective layering whereby sheets of time begin to co- exist. This thrownness is a polyrhythmic preacceleration whereby what is felt is becoming-movement more than actual spacing. The race becomes the body becoming orchestral.
Polyrhythm is the capacity to become through movement on more than one plane at once. It merges becoming-movement with becoming-rhythm. Most of the time, Riefenstahl builds in polyrhythm, creating an architectonics through the montage while overlaying it with audio rhythms and bringing them together to create ever more complex rhythms. Durations layer and begin to move, the move- ment felt in its incipiency. This creates a sensation of cutting-across that prolongs the potential of one rhythm while adding to it, which is no doubt why capturing her images is such an uncanny proposition, each capture as evocative as the last. Composition reaches the heights of commanding form when it exceeds the sum of its parts. This more-than must survive multiple repetitions and must
140	Chapter 6