writes: “No one still believes that an object finishes off where another begins, or that there is anything around us which cannot be cut up and sectionalized by an arabesque of straight curves” (1970b, 61). An arabesque of straight curves might be a way to speak of the affective tonality of the bursts of red on the hang- ing Mylar of Blood Nebulae. Whereas the front view gives us a sense of how the nebulae might appear, seen from the side, the hanging Mylar proposes a red- ness for the perception itself of nebulae. Taking a tour of the artwork becomes a trajectory in the force field of perception’s animated exploration of vision’s edge.
Let me explain: what we see when we look is the emergence of contour from an interplay of edges. We don’t actually see an image—the image composes itself through the force of a relational dynamic. All vision works this way, our eyes at any given moment proposing nothing close to final form. What we experience as final form is in fact an appearance of the composed relation across moments. We see this composition, and even as we see it, it recomposes. Blinking, readjusting for saccadic bursts, reorganizing for stereoscopic vision, our field of perception is a play of movement yielding rhythmic contours. Stability is vision’s illusion. The challenge is de-animation, not the contrary.
This paradox of vision is made palpable in David Spriggs’s work. Think of Paradox of Power (2007). The paradox here is not the idea of the bull per se (and what the multiple bulls might represent) but the way the bull comes into vision. Let’s begin with a side-view: what we see is compelling—a strange permutation of red through blue. Looking again, we find we cannot really differentiate the blue, the red, the light seeping through, the plastic hanging, the edges of the glass box. It’s as though we see each of these qualities in their very emergence, caught in a prearticulation of the image. Blue is blue-on-blue, red is red-on-red- on-blue, colors intermixing at the edges of our vision, their inmixing singular, our perception of them continuously shifting through the amodal experience of seeing-feeling the rhythmic contours of the almost-image. We cannot quite bear this view—it pulls us toward another angle, toward the image itself as it comes to expression. We’ve moved again.
And this is what we see, standing in front of the image (although we are not sure now if this is in fact the front, or whether this is just another mode of ap- pearance of the multiheaded bull): we see blue and red, lines gleaming into light, their edges melting into a kind of emanation. This is not simply a multiple-bull: it is an image extending beyond its coming to form into the light of its own quasi appearance.
146	Interlude