complexifying abstraction” (1998, 33; my translation). In an attempt to formal- ize a vocabulary for the passage from art to thought, Irwin wonders about the process that allows perceptions/conceptions to take on a meaning entirely inde- pendent from their origins (1998, 33). He writes: “To try to construct [a model for perception] is at once complicated and theoretical, and the passage that fol- lows must be as much a procedure or a set of procedures as an explanatory sys- tem. Concrete is as concrete doesn’t”84 (Irwin 1998, 35; my translation).
Spriggs’s animate sculptures are concrete in the immateriality of their be- coming. They make felt how movement propels objects into quasi appearance. Take Incorporeal Movement (2004). This sculpture animates light through the becoming-figural of a three-headed body of red. These three quasi figures are perceived not in their definiteness as three bodies but in a blurry relatedness that disallows a terse separateness. It is as much three bodies becoming one as one body multiplying. What Spriggs airbrushes here is not the final form but its becoming through the mixture of color, light, and shadow. The ethereal qual- ity of the body-becoming-multiple is multiplied by our movement around the sculpture, a movement-with that strangely singularizes the experience (because we still try to focus the image into one head, one form). There is a perceptual play here of singularity and multiplicity, a play as much of light as of form. A play not of shadows but with shadows.
Creating with light and its absence is a way of asking us to move light. We feel the beckoning of light in our attempt to make the form concrete. Incorporeal Movement plays with light and shadow to create form, merging the concrete with the abstract. This does not happen by simply standing in front of it. Staying in place focuses the light, and with the imposition of stability, the appearance of form recedes.
Incorporeal Movement appears for perception. It appears if we actively per- ceive it. Virtually. It makes us move. We move to make it reappear. And as it reappears, we become aware of the ways in which it disappears. This disappear- ance occurs because the work isn’t actually all there for the perceptual taking. It’s there for the making, for the re-making through movement-perception. What we see: rhythms of color and light on the cusp of becoming shapes. Force-lines for perception in the making.
For Boccioni, force-lines emphasize the becoming-atmospheric of dynamic form. Becoming-atmospheric suggests a transduction from object to the pal- pable mobility of space-times of invention. Rather than simply creating a boxed animation, what Spriggs’s work proposes is a creative engagement with the
Of Force Fields and Rhythm Contours	149