becoming-environment of the space-times of experience we cocreate as we move-with the sculptures’ animate form.
This is not an easy task. An animate sculpture is a dynamic form that remains dynamic. To do so, it must keep moving (without moving). How? By creating a relational environment. Similarly to Irwin’s Who’s Afraid of Red, Yellow and Blue, whose vertigo of appearance gets people moving and talking, Spriggs’s work creates openings for engagement. What his work proposes is that we cre- ate a movement-with that fosters the emergence of animate form. This play with emergence is an inventive pact between art and participant. It proposes relation without telling us in advance how to move.
Spriggs’s work invites us to see-with what is not actually there and to move- with the constellation of what we’re beginning to see. Moving-with perception composing itself, we experience the dynamics of form. We no longer simply observe—we are moved by the experience of watching, and we move with it. We note the contours but feel the colors. We see the lines but feel the rhythm. We see-with the becoming-work. We participate in the activity of plastic dyna- mism expressing itself through the emergence of a body-sculpture constellation. Plastic dynamism is not simply about how we see an object but also about how an object appears for our embodied perception: “Plastic dynamism is the simul- taneous action of the motion characteristic of an object (its absolute motion), mixed with the transformation which the object undergoes in relation to its mobile and immobile environment (its relative motion)” (Boccioni 1970a, 92). Entropy (2007). Look at it and feel its force. Your eyes refuse to focus. Even when you try to see the distinctness of form, what you see is blurriness—the becoming-form’s absolute motion. Flatten your gaze, and what you feel is the rel- ative motion of Entropy’s force. You feel its spiral as a centrifugal rhythm. You see the droplets of water as they recombine with the force of Entropy’s movement. You find it impossible to stand still. You move to the side, to where the sheets of Mylar themselves begin to curve. The animate form follows your movement moving: you realize your vision has curved in the process of feeling the force of
the rhythm’s contours. You see rhythm contouring.
Of Force Fields and Rhythm Contours	151