is ontogenetically recreated through the process. The painting proposes new modes of viewing, a seeing-in-movement that incites us to move. We be- come part of the composition, part of the activity of relation through which the painting achieves its morphing form. We feel its limits even as its limits field us.
Deleuze writes: “We do not listen closely enough to what painters have to say. They say that the painter is already in the canvas, where he or she encounters all the figurative and probabilistic givens that occupy and preoccupy the can- vas” (2003, 81). We look-with its diagram, the resonant force lines it calls forth. Mina Mina’s diagram comes together through the dotted black line on the upper right side of the canvas, a line that almost cuts off the corner from the rest, yet embraces the painting as a whole. This self-embracing gesture is more than a compositional device. It expresses the painting’s withness, its immanent force. It creates a tensile elasticity that holds the experience of touching vision to the singularity of its own eventness.
Mina Mina speaks of salt lines, a mapping not of a territory but its passages, the traces it leaves in the landscapes it uncovers. A map is discovered here, not uncovered. We take part in the map’s durational eventness, in an activity of map- ping that directs our bodies not toward the representation of Mina Mina but toward its liveliness. This mapping is a creative vector of experience: it maps the future, not the past, leading us toward a recomposition of experience, a collab- orative striation that smoothes the space of encounter.
2. Emily Kame Kngwarreye’s Alhalkere (1991) covers the whole wall. Three me- ters wide, it is powerful in its vivid evocation of the land, dancing with both grace and force. Asignifying traits merge to create a non-representational, non- illustrative, and non-narrative field: “marks that no longer depend on our will or our sight” (Deleuze 2003, 82) Its diagram can be felt emerging from the deep reddish burgundy spilling from the top left-hand corner of the painting. It is as though the rest of the painting overflows from this dark corner, merging into a transformative activity of dot-painting, overpowered, finally, by yellow dots that transfuse with the surface, becoming surface, dense and airy at once. This qual- ity of yellowness becomes the asignifying trait that propulses the canvas into an event. The event of Alhalkere is rhythmical: it moves in contrapuntal bursts that oscillate between red and yellow, creating a quivering of perception that dances the passage from the dot to the surface to the rhythm in between. Diagrams are “a chaos, a catastrophe, but . . . also, a germ of rhythm in relation to a new order
156	Chapter 7