topological relationscape that embodies as much the Law as it does the grains of sand that prolong it in real time. The land and the Law are not two, are not juxtaposed. They are not sustained in a present-future symbolism. They are one: a becoming multiplicity.
The Dreaming alters all dimensions of experience even as it embeds pastness in futurity. To simply locate a Dreaming as a story of creation is to touch on only one aspect of the concept. Dreamings are mythological and cosmogenic tales that are not simply stories of creation (with all attendant dramas and misunder- standings, love stories, and disappointments) in the Biblical sense: they are also stories of the creation of the future-present. Dreamings do not exist once and for all (although they also do that): they are tales for the retelling through song, voice, dance, paint. Dreams are for keeping alive.
All Dreamings are sustained by multiple guardians. Members from different clans are Kirda and Kurdungurlu for the Dreaming,89 which means that while one person is responsible for the iconography of the Dreaming’s location, an- other is responsible for parts of its story. An individual cannot single-handedly decide to paint a Dreaming, even if he or she is Kirda for that Dreaming. The Kurdungurlu must be included in the process: relation is already inscribed in the Dreaming before its story is told again. The same goes for the trajectories of the songs that populate and extend the space-time of the Dreamings. No one ever owns a complete trajectory. To sing the songs of a Dreaming, communities must be assembled, sometimes even intertribally. The Law is played out in this relationship of reciprocity. A sharing of the land is an experience of relation in its future-passing.
“To paint a Dreaming is at once to regenerate one’s forces and to connect the object or the person to the earth and to the space-time of the hero who ‘dreams’ the life of people and their environment” (Glowczewski 1989, 83).90 To dream is never an individual affair. Even night dreams in Aboriginal communities ex- tend beyond the individual body: my dream may be your dream experienced through the vessel of my becoming-form. The earth-as-body is the support for the traces of ancestral bodies and the metamorphoses of experience in the pres- ent. It is a mnemonic for the Law of the Dreaming. To dream is to be in contact with others, to dream their dreams: “The agreement of others is necessary. An oneiric vision is attested as ‘real’ only on condition that it is connected to picto- rial forms and narratives . . . that have been transmitted for hundreds of genera- tions” (Glowczewski 1989, 151). There is never a single version that works for
160	Chapter 7