this is that movement need not be thought, in the first instance, as a quantitative displacement from a to b. Following Bergson, Relationscapes places the empha- sis on the immanence of movement moving: how movement can be felt before it actualizes. Preacceleration refers to the virtual force of movement’s taking form. It is the feeling of movement’s in-gathering, a welling that propels the direction- ality of how movement moves. In dance, this is felt as the virtual momentum of a movement’s taking form before we actually move. Important: the pulsion toward directionality activates the force of a movement in its incipiency. It does not necessarily foretell where a movement will go.
Incipient movement preaccelerates a body toward its becoming. The body becomes through forces of recombination that compose its potential direc- tionalities. When I take a step, how the step moves me is key to where I can go. Gravity acts on the step such that the time span of the step’s creativity is relatively short-lived. Nonetheless, there is an incipient potentiality even here, where the step can move eventfully in a withness of movement moving that exceeds the predomination of the ground: the step can become a spiral. Preac- celerated, what is felt is neither stepness nor spiralness. What is felt is incipient potential to move-with the intensity of extension. Moving-with the intensity of extension means that movement gathers first in the potential of its incipiency, not in the extensity of its displacement. By the time movement displaces, few options for surprise remain: gravity’s pull over the movement’s directionality has taken over.
The dynamic form of a movement is its incipient potential. Bodies are dy- namic expressions of movement in its incipiency. They have not yet converged into final form. Throughout Relationscapes, I refer to bodies as pure plastic rhythm. I propose that we move toward a notion of a becoming-body that is a sensing body in movement,6 a body that resists predefinition in terms of sub- jectivity or identity, a body that is involved in a reciprocal reaching-toward that in-gathers the world even as it worlds.
These bodies-in-the-making are propositions for thought in motion. Thought here is not strictly of the mind but of the body-becoming. Thought is never op- posed to movement: thought moves a body. This movement-with is durational in the first instance. Duration is the plane of experience on which expressive finality has not yet taken hold. As thought shifts toward expression, it moves through concepts in prearticulation. How thought becomes concept is parallel to how duration becomes experiential space-time.
Events of Relation	7