a living landscape that is not separate from the perception of perception that recomposes us. Alhalkere is the Dreaming insofar as it incurs concern for the event that is the shape-shifting of experience. Moving-with its own eventful be- coming, Alhalkere is a metastable system that cannot be thought outside the ex- periential field it opens. Touching (with) us, Alhalkere asks that we have concern for the Dreaming.
Concern for the Dreaming is an ethics of encounter with the unknowable— an event in the making—that far exceeds the specificity of a particular piece of land. This is not to dismiss the importance of land claims in Aboriginal politics, nor to romanticize space as ephemeral. It is to take the immanent materiality of the Dreamings seriously and to note that what paintings such as Alhalkere do exceeds the parameters of their landmarks. Their concern is for the embodied eventness of land, not a predetermined location. It is not based on an identity politics that would promote an exclusive dialectics of inside/outside. Experi- ence itself is at stake, in the making. The fluidity of experience of paintings such as Alhalkere does not limit itself to preinformed historical circumstances. It is radically empirical: it is an invitation to invent with the unspeakable, the im- perceptible, the as-yet-unfelt. “Dreaming stories and ‘icons’ [do] justice to the force and effect of these paintings in the material terms they themselves effect” (Biddle 2003, 61).94 The immanent materiality of these paintings calls forth an empiricism that is directly experienced, that is directly relational. And that is how they reach me, 10,000 miles away.
The relation the Dreaming proposes is not composed separately from its eventness. Dreamings are here and now as much as they are then and before. Dreamings are neither nostalgic nor predictable. They are concern for the present-passing. Reembodied through paint, the Dreamings make the not-yet felt, asking, always, to live again, to be lived again. Once more. The repetition of the act is its infinite difference. The painting of the dots, one at a time, for hours on end, is a differential living-with that continuously reinvents with the stories that belong to a history of time-on-earth that exceeds the very notion of stable territory, calling forth worlds that extend far beyond what geography can map. The intimacy of relation is felt in the reliving of the Dream, told as a life-giving story that intensifies contact between lineage, land, movement. In the paintings, this intimacy is experienced in the pulsations of the dots, in the rhythms of the layered surfaces at play, of intensities interweaving. These paintings ask us to move (move away! come closer! look again!), figuring movement such that what is felt is not the representation of a story but the act of the telling itself. This
162	Chapter 7