Paintings of Dreamings call forth a directly perceived relation with their own materiality and with the thereness of the land. They map not a place but a dia- gram out of which a taking-form emerges. To speak of maps is always to return, in some sense, to the evocative work of Clifford Possum Tjapaltjarri. Clifford Possum’s art is revered for its precision and breadth. Possum was one of the more experienced artists among those who painted in the early years of the Pap- unya Tula movement. Clifford Possum’s map series was created between 1976 and 1979.95 These “maps” draw out the challenging reorganization of space-time the Dreaming makes possible even while ostensibly doing so within the vo- cabulary of a Westernized concept of a map. In these early acrylic paintings, Clifford Possum makes felt both his relation to the land and the interrelatedness of the Dreamings for which he is custodian. In the Central Desert, a particular individual is identified not only with a network of trails, animals, food, and landmarks passed down through patrilineal descent, but also with myriad inter- related components that keep all of these categories open. A person’s birthplace, where their parents or grandparents were born or initiated, extended residence networks, all of these factors influence the positioning of the individual with/in his or her Dreamings. To think of Dreamings as representing discrete spaces or particular laws is both to underestimate the ways in which Dreamings chal- lenge linear space-time and to forget the relational aspect of ownership within Aboriginal culture. The Dreamings no more belong to the land than they do to the people. The people and the Dreaming are coextensive: they are ontogenetic networks of reciprocal exchange. A Dreaming is not an entity, not a place. It is a movement, a song and a dance, a practice of mark-making that does not repre- sent a space-time but creates it, again and again.96
To assume a regular passage from past to present to future is to be imprisoned within Cartesian coordinates that have little to do with Central Desert culture. For Aborigines of the Central Desert, the past is activated in the present-passing, not passively remembered. Culture and politics in the Central Desert are there for the (re)making, challenged and expressed by an opening to certain stories of creation that intertwine in complex and infinite ways the present and the past, the human and the animal, space and time. The collective memory of the
164	Chapter 7