Albert North Whitehead’s concept of actual occasions is central to under- standing the spacedness and timedness of events throughout Relationscapes. As Gilles Deleuze and Felix Guattari emphasize by dating each of the plateaus in A Thousand Plateaus, events take form in the concreteness of time and space. This does not mean that time and space precede them. Quite the contrary: events create time and space. Whitehead demonstrates this by foregrounding the event- ness of perception. For him, events of perception are always called forth through prehensions, which are the pulling out of expression from the durational plane of experience.7 When a becoming-event is pulled out, the activity of perception is experienced as such. This initial prehension creates the parameters for the taking-form of space-time in the context of a discrete experience.
The prehension “chair,” for instance, brings with it the capacity to experience sitability as a key modality of chair-expression. We feel the sitting as part of how “chair” is prehended: the event-in-the-making becomes one of sitability. This actual occasion of chairness culminates in what Whitehead calls the subjective form of the experience: in this case, chair-as-sitability. What is prehended is not chair per se but the relation between body and chair, between movement and concept with the chair-as-object just one pole in the actual occasion. Once the actual occasion takes form (as a movement of thought, or as an actual experi- ence of sitability), it perishes, its culmination marking the opening for future relational experiences colored by sitability. Chair has given way to sitability on a dated and timed relational nexus of experience. The event exists as such in a concrete (and perished) experience of space-time, even as chairness continues to collaborate in future events.8
Actual occasions are monadic in the sense that they are contemporarily inde- pendent. An event is always singular, completely absorbed by its particular itera- tion. Events are never relational in their actualization: they relate across the nexus of experience in their incipiency—their pastness—or in their perishing—their future-pastness. Whitehead warns that without this monadic quality to events, there would be no elbow room in the universe. Within a vocabulary of move- ment, this can be explained by foregrounding the difference between preacceler- ation and displacement. In the preacceleration of a step, anything is possible. But as the step begins to actualize, there is no longer much potential for divergence: the foot will land where it lands. Incipiency opens up experience to the unknow- able, follow-through toward concrescence closes experience on itself. Of course, this closing-in is always a reopening toward the next incipient action.
8	Introduction