The country for which Clifford Possum is response-able forms a wide arc with a radius of some 100 km centered approximately 200 km northwest of Al- ice Springs. It stretches from Waltunpunyu, west of Central Mount Wedge in the south, up through Napperby and Mount Allan stations, northwest as far as the blue hill of Wakulpa just north of Yuendumu, and northeast across Mount Denison and Conisten Stations (Johnson 2003, 21). From the perspective of a Cartesian geography, this is Anmatyerre country. Topologically, Anmatyerre country is more complex.98
The teachings that allow us to conceive of landscapes as perspectival enti- ties operational in space-time are in the main Euclidean. In Euclidean geom- etry, we know one space from another not primarily by the ways in which our bodies create that space but by the ways in which we inhabit or enter it. Space becomes a container for experience. By privileging inhabitation (where space always preexists experience), Euclidean geometry enables a rendering-abstract of space, abstract in the sense that it is empty before the arrival of content to fill it. Because of this abstraction of space, what is measured in Euclidean geometry is considered concrete: space is abstract, bodies and landscapes are concrete. Body and space are not one, co-determining: they are always two, 1 + 1, body + space. It is due to this linear grammar of geometry that the colonizer is able to assert that seemingly empty space is uninhabited.
Topological space-time refutes the dichotomy between the abstract and the concrete. Topological space-time is not 1 + 1 but n + 1, always more-than. The Dreaming is an evocation of such a topological space-time of experience. It situ- ates land, body, space, time, experience all in one structural node, an elastic point that fields the perpetual movement of time. Topological rendering relationally connects nature and existence, insisting that no single element be a permanent support for changing relations. In this relational network of experience, innova- tion is at stake even while the traditions of the past carry weight in the present. Innovation does not mean the erasure of the past. It means creating a founda- tion for the shifting relations of past and future in the present passing. Through the Dreaming, a multiplicity of worldings emerges. At the creation of each new experience, the many become one and are increased by one.99
Topology refers to a continuity of transformation that alters the figure, bring- ing to the fore not the coordinates of form but the experience of it. Topolo- gies suggest that the space of the body extends beyond Euclidean coordinates to an embodiment of folding space-times of experience: pure plastic rhythm. As Massumi asks, “What if the body is inseparable from dimensions of lived
166	Chapter 7