abstractness that cannot be conceptualized in other than topological terms?” (2002, 177). To think topologically is to think beyond preexistent coordinates, be they for a body, a territory, a landscape, a law.
Dreamings break down the dichotomy between the abstract and the con- crete. In the Dreaming, concrete and abstract overlap. The Dreaming does not function wholly abstractly or wholly concretely. It moves through their interval, giving no more credence to the now of flesh than to the virtuality of spiritual evocations of the landscape. This continuity of the actual and the virtual creates a law of alliance that is neither concrete nor abstract. This law of alliance rests on an implicit understanding that space-time is as spiritual as it is physical, as topological as it is geographic. The landscape moves, and with it, the Dreamings shift and bodies metamorphose.
A map of the landscape that relies on x/y coordinates asks us to pre-space- time ourselves within it. Turn your body this way, it suggests, face this direction. To read a Cartesian map is to ask a preformed body-concept to conform to its gridding. Topological space-time works otherwise. This is why Clifford Possum did not always render the Dreamings in a “geographically accurate” way. To even posit a concept such as the “geographically accurate,” we must already have had the experience of the x/y grids of the mapping of Euclidean space that takes for granted that our journeys begin and end in directions that can be recomposed in space and time. It supposes that a body never shape-shifts, that it always sees from the same perspective and within the same field of potential relations.
Clifford Possum’s maps do not ask to be read in this way. Never overly con- cerned with the time and space of representation, Clifford Possum painted his great map series by moving the canvas around him. Through the act of painting, the land shifted, and with this shift so did its relations to space-times of experi- ence. Instead of strictly linking locations in gridded geometrical space, the can- vas’s painted surface turns its attention to the Dreaming’s intensive movement. This immobile voyage moves toward experience rather than location: Clifford Possum takes his bearings not with a concept of due north but with the living relation that is the Dreaming.
What is at stake in Clifford Possum’s maps is not the omnipresent observer’s bird’s eye view of the landscape operating according to preestablished coordinates of space-time, but the relation between aspects of a Dreaming from the stand- point of a morphogenetic body. Like a tracker who continuously updates his or her bearings and alignment in space with each change of direction in the chase, Clifford Possum does not create an archival representation of land. He creates
Relationscapes	167