Whether incipient movement or thought prearticulated, novelty is situ- ated within process. When movement converges into its taking-form, or when thought converges into words, very little potential for creative expression re- mains. This is not to suggest that language cannot express creatively. It means that to remain post-iteratively creative, language must continue to express itself in a realm where thought remains prearticulated, where concepts continue to evolve. We must conceive of language as the eternal return of expression in the making.
Thought is ontogenetic: it propels more thought. Relationscapes takes this idea to the limit, proposing various engagements with movements of thought, from Leni Riefenstahl’s complex movement-images to Umberto Boccioni’s atmospheric body, from Dorothy Napangardi’s dance with the ground to Clifford Possum Tjapaltjarri’s maps and Emily Kame Kngwarreye’s own relationscapes. With the concept of individuation—which also becomes infra-individuation—Relation- scapes attempts to create a vocabulary for how movement becomes thought and vice-versa. In this eternal return of movement-becoming-thought and thought-becoming-movement, what emerges is the uncanny realization that movement tells stories quite differently than does a more linear and stable historicization.
This is particularly resonant in the animate form of Étienne-Jules Marey’s cinematic experiments, which seek to locate durational movement’s impercep- tibility within a positivist framework and develop a vocabulary for movement that exceeds representation within a stable matrix of calculable coordinates. Al- though never explicitly outlined in chapter 5, I would argue that had Marey’s experiments with movement been foregrounded within the history of cinema, cinema’s early emphasis on theories of semiosis might have been derouted into a more developed exploration of how cinema moves. This might have redirected the study of cinema from its early academic embededness within formalist thought toward early twentieth-century expressions of movement such as the invention of modern dance, Futurism’s concern with ontogenesis, Bergson’s the- ory of duration. The effect of this convergence of cinema and movement would have been a foregrounding less of narrative strategies within the cinematic than experimentation with how images provoke durational flows that are themselves mobile even before passing through a projector.
Seen through the specter of movement, the history of cinema converges around concepts of force rather than ideas of representation. This is a key differ- ence between Marey and Eadweard Muybridge, one rarely exploited in theories
Events of Relation	9