arguably Australia’s greatest painter of the ‘landscape.’ No artist has painted the country the way she has, inflecting it with her personal vision and innovative style. . . . Hers is not a view of the law, but rather an experience of it. She rescales the landscape to a cosmic dimension—more akin to the holistic landscape of the Aboriginal mind” (1998, 31).
To speak of Kngwarreye’s work in this way only begins to get at the richness of the experience vividly and brilliantly created through her work. What is at stake for Kngwarreye shifts far beyond representation, beyond the figural toward an abstraction that embraces the passage of the actual into the virtual, an abstrac- tion that radically recasts the figure in an attempt to undermine the idea that Dreamings contain experience. Kngwarreye painted with and across Dreamings, never content to give in to the idea that they should represent anything beyond experience in the making. A whole lot.
In Kngwarreye’s paintings, the paint moves at great speed beyond the edges of the canvas in an exploration not of the beyond itself but of the here and now, a present that is always more than what we can actually perceive.106 Her art runs, breathless, exhausting our attempt to catch up with it.107 This is at the heart of the works of Kngwarreye: the experience of sensation as that which moves beyond the landmark, beyond the location or the object of study, toward a direction that is always becoming toward a rhizomatic network shape-shifting from lines to dots, from shade to shade in a living relationscape.
Two series stand out for me—though it might be possible to speak of Kng- warreye’s whole oeuvre as a giant, modulating, dancing series—because of the activity of relation felt across the planes of intensity that take the form of con- ceptually connected panels. The first of this series is entitled Utopia Panels. It was made in 1996 and comprises six panels of black horizontal lines on a white background.108 What is eerie about this series is the fact that although the black paint is applied to a white surface, the black and white interweave such that the white “background” folds forward into the black lines, thus foregrounding its backgrounding. Background here takes a more Whiteheadian meaning, refer- ring not to a predetermined state but to an activity of interrelation that makes felt the virtually emergent. A virtually emergent state is one that has not yet appeared as such, yet holds within itself the potential for transformation. This potential is entirely relational: a background is a nexus of past actual occasions poised to be reactivated into appearance. Whitehead explains this incipient pastness through the concept of non-sensuous perception. He writes: “We can
172	Chapter 7