Blackness transduces into whiteness such that what emerges is not simply the line but surfaces entwining, creating a complex layered resonant field of lines and depths. If non-sensuous perception is “the immediate past . . . surviving to be again lived through in the present” (Whitehead 1933, 182), what is perceived here is not the line per se but its activity—its worlding—via the metastability created by both the survival and the perishing of whiteness and blackness. But there’s more to it. These are not simply straight lines. The lines breathe, dancing not only their duration but the perishing of their process. Each line comes to a halt, sometimes halfway across an individual canvas, sometimes across two canvases. These lines are occasions of experience that create their own patterns within the vaster event that is the complete series. Lines dance into one an- other such that the movement of the paintbrush, moving across the canvases, can almost be felt. There is a sense of effort here, but with it comes also a sense of speed. Driven intensity, absolute movement. There is no time to return to the line: the line must draw the movement. The gesture itself must become line. One pass with the paint, and that’s all. Move the canvas. The result: a vastness of localized movement. A movement-across that is at once microscopic and macro- scopic. A line of flight invested in the microperceptions alive in the activity of relation that populates the metastable in-betweenness of the black and white. A folding-in of foreground and background.
A second series that stands out is called Untitled. It also comprises six pan- els, and is made one year earlier, in 1995. The activity of paint is similar here, drawing the background into the foreground, creating a direct perception of the activity of relation felt through the heavy, impatient line. As with Utopia Pan- els, there is a sense of paint exhausting itself (and the canvas) by the end of the series—as though Kngwarreye’s brushstrokes used all the paint the brush could hold, in one infinite gesture. In this series, the colors range from white to red to yellow, creating a pink-orange-brown-blue-greenness emergent in the mixing of the paint. Again, the lines are danced, materialized from the range accessible from shoulder to hand in a single movement that never dissociates the shoulder from the body: each line moves a body.
The first of the six canvases of Untitled (1995) backgrounds the yellow, creat- ing an almost uniform surface of whitish-pink strokes across, up, and down. These strokes are fierce but relatively constrained, short in length as though staccato, marking the surface without giving in to it. This panel bleeds yellow into the next canvas. The second panel—in shades of white on a brownish
176	Chapter 7