yellow-green—is less controlled, mad with layering, a mix of colors that seep into the background, creating a brownish-yellow-green. The lines here are mostly whitish, continuous with the first canvas, but more complex due to the thickness of shades out of which the lines emerge, the background coloring caused, probably, by paint mixing before it dries. This is an impatient canvas, lines of differing widths no longer simply moving across and down but spiraling as well. Unlike the first panel, which seems to be what it proposes, the second panel is disruptive, continuous with the first, and yet disjunctive, thus forcing the body to keep moving toward the next panel.
Here and throughout the rest of the canvases, the white of the nonpainted canvas shows through, creating an inner connection between these divergent but connected pieces. The third panel’s lines are again pinkish and the compo- sition more staid, though now the unpainted space is clearly present on three sides, creating a sense of an inner diagram functioning through a layering of backgrounds and foregrounds, as though the white lines and the white back- ground resonated together. This whiteness of the canvas showing through is on all the subsequent panels, though only on the inner top and bottom corners of the last one.
The fourth panel is violent in its explosion of energy. The whole body—a whole lot—feels emergent here, animating the painting’s diagram, culminat- ing in the last canvas. Red against white against the brownish-green mix of background-becoming-foreground, the lines are wild, creating incipient topo- logical forms on a surface that resists flatness. The fifth panel seems again more composed—more restful, the lines continuous up, down, and across, mostly white with a bit of red creating a sense of an emergent pink, a drawing across of shade that moves toward affective tone rather than simply color, for pink seems anathema to the ferocity of these active lines. In the last panel, the paint begins to run out, as though we were left with the dregs of the effort that constitutes the event of the series.
But there is also a new component, emergent in the bottom left corner of the fifth panel, a mysterious slate blue, strangely discontinuous with most of the already apparent shades, yet co-constitutive of them. This blue seems to forecast the concrescence of the series, holding the event to itself even while it proposes its continuity elsewhere. Bringing futurity into the mix, the sixth panel seems to virtually contain all the other canvases, holding the series together even while exhausting it, the paintbrush squeezing out its last drops of color. In Whitehead- ian terms, the subjective form has coalesced (concresced). The last panel is the
178	Chapter 7