of cinema: Marey’s practice invests in the exploration of movement’s durational force, whereas Muybridge’s work focuses on movement’s poses. Throughout Relationscapes, I explore durational force through the Deleuzian idea of series. This allows me—via Riefenstahl’s work in particular—to foreground how move- ment does not work primarily across immobile cuts. Riefenstahl’s extraordinary images make incipient movement felt, her “stills” mobile. Within her work we experience not images as contained by frames but a proliferation of relational series that move conjunctively across shots and frames. This serial aspect of her shots can be experienced without any effort by capturing images from her films: I encourage you to try this at home. Whereas with most filmmakers it is a challenge to find a striking image when capturing the movement into a still, with Riefenstahl each capture is evocative, foregrounding never a body as such, but how a body moves and becomes-body. What we are left with, always, is im- manent movement, still-moving.
The elasticity of movement as developed in chapter 2 makes a case for bodies always reconverging around the elasticity of their becoming. Riefenstahl’s work makes this elasticity felt both within and across the frame, opening thought to- ward the articulation of how movement can also be felt within stillness (within a “still”). Working from a perspective of incipient movement, I explore how force takes form through an elastic movement that is curved through inflection. Inflection is a mathematical concept that demonstrates how lines are moved by nodal points that not only change the line’s direction but also alter the param- eters for its mapping. Inflection makes apparent how even a “still” can move as it curves with the force of preacceleration: movement’s elasticity is felt in its curving-through a nodal shift that redirects its force. This nodal shift is move- ment’s elastic point.
Thought also moves through the elasticity of the almost. The elastic point is the creativity of movement in the making. It is the ontogenetic force through which becoming-form is felt. Movement folds around this elastic point such that what is felt is not the point per se but the elasticity of its becoming. This is a topological sensation—which is a paradox in itself: a topology of experience is a force-form before it is a feeling. Still, when we feel this sensation of ontogenetic force-taking-form, we do tend to smile, laugh, or at least feel surprised by the event as it expresses us.
There is a rhythm to all of this. To posit rhythm as extra or external to experi- ence is to misunderstand how rhythms make up events. Rhythm gives affective tonality to experience, making experience this and not that. Rhythm techniques
10	Introduction