event that composes the series even as it marks the beginning of its perishing. The hands say it all: white hands multiplied in the right bottom corner, letting the series go. There is no holding on to an event that is already passing. Hav- ing reached its culmination, the series makes use of the frenzied crescendo of this diagrammatic finale to foreground the active disjunction out of which a re- virtualization of potential is born—felt, particularly, in the blue-grey island— that marks the opening for the next actual occasion to begin to take form. The painting begins and ends in one and the same (multiplicitous) gesture.
This is an energetic finale. Energetic is the word for these dancing lines, but an energy of composition, not transcendence. These paintings are of the world, in the world, and for the world. As with the first series—Utopia Panels (1996)
—the world cannot be thought outside the eventness of the work. Kngwarreye’s is an activity of worlding where “the world within experience is identical with the world beyond experience, the occasion of experience is within the world, and the world is within the occasion” (Whitehead 1933, 228).
Kngwarreye creates an artistic plane of composition that engages the plane of immanence. Her work is of potential, of sensations that are always at once percepts and affects. In What Is Philosophy, Deleuze and Guattari explain: per- cepts are not perceptions, and affects are not affections (feelings). Percepts are “independent of a state of those who undergo them” and affects do not arise from subjects but pass through them (Deleuze and Guattari 1994, 169). Affects are becomings-other of sensation. Kngwarreye’s art moves the body through the interpellation of increasingly complex sensations that are connected not to one final event but to the perpetuation of events alive in the “whole.” Compositions of forces are alive in her work, creating sensations as reachings-toward that do not capture the Dreamings but set them in motion, rendering the imperceptible perceptible and the perceptible imperceptible. Her paintings do not call forth the songs of the Dreamings, they dance them: “The refrain in its entirety is the being of sensation” (Deleuze and Guattari 1994, 184).
Kngwarreye’s works are not simply visual events. They are physically over- whelming experiences that capture the passing of the material substrate into sensation. Sensation is not projected: movement is felt as the canvas becomes a point of departure in a vast network of alliances of which the human body is but one aspect. Metamorphoses of forces, exfoliations of experiences, these are what is at stake in Kngwarreye’s “whole lot.” The “whole lot” is not a subject. It is the plane of immanence, the combinations of speeds, of affects and percepts in which “the One expresses in a single and same sense all of the multiple, [where]
Relationscapes	179