Deleuze speaks of marks made accidentally. These accidental marks are free— free of the medium, free of the context of their representation. They are not unconscious but hyperconscious. They are marks out of which new concepts are born. To watch Kngwarreye paint is to watch a woman dancing, her whole body engaged in the act, the plane of composition emerging directly from her shoulder along the elbow, wrist held firmly, both hands involved.110 She was not a writing woman: she was a dancing woman, her wrists taut with the ac- tivity of reaching-toward and moving-with. Her paintings reflect this force of movement-with through the wholeness of the emergent line or dot, through the becoming-form of the body-land-canvas.
Kngwarreye paints the reaching-toward out of which dancing dreams are composed. This reaching-toward is an almost-touch: it touches the not-yet through which futurity will emerge. Painting the untouchable is to preacceler- ate the urgency of the taking-form these extraordinary paintings propose. This suggests a noncoincidence always present in the act of mark-making, a rhythmic disjunction that recalls the latency or the virtual in any actualization. To actu- alize in this sense is to make-present both the future and the past. Painting is creation.111 Kngwarreye’s art is not unconscious. What she paints is absolutely real, eventful, its untouchability always an incitation to touch.
It is the rhythm of the land I see in Kngwarreye’s relationscapes, a rhythm that refuses to subjugate the image to the text, the dance to the music. The rhythm is all around, it is the “whole lot”: the weather, the seasons, the births and deaths, the rituals and performances, the body painting and batiks. These rhythms are sensations of the boldest kind, sensations that alter the very core of what it is to sense. There is no inside/outside to the sensations: they are as much of the body as of the land, extending synesthetically beyond all comprehension of three-dimensional space-time, leading us not toward a dimension as such but toward a topological hyperspace of relationscapes, to an immanent transcen- dence that is profoundly of the land, of the here and now.
182	Chapter 7