Experiential work defies description. As lines become planes become topol- ogies, the singular mark synesthetically transforms the whole. The colors re- flect not only off one another but also within the shades they help create. These shades are events: Dreamings in the making.
Topological geographies create new art histories. Red against yellow, black against brown, dots, lines, circles, footprints, all of these gestures toward the Dreaming extend themselves beyond a body or a canvas, creating movements of thought. These movements of thought provoke response-ability: we cannot but move. We cannot but sense the shades of difference that create the activity of the land. We cannot but respond relationally. We cannot participate and then refuse the immanence of the “whole” these paintings generate.
This is the power of contemporary Aboriginal art. It incites cross-cultural transformation at an artistic as well as a political level, asking us to rethink the map, the landmark we presumed we could locate, the direction we thought we knew how to follow. In the end, we remain foreign yet politically—relation- ally—charged. A qualitative change has occurred shifting us from the realm of the passive observer toward the realm of the political inventor: the topological hyperspace we encounter through Aboriginal art has qualitatively altered our capacity to relate on shifting ground.
Relationscapes abound. They are not strictly relegated to the Aborigines and their experience of the Dreaming. Kngwarreye was not the first to annihilate figuration. What art such as that of Kngwarreye, Napangardi, Petyarre, or Pos- sum does is create a movement of thought, a movement that is marayin, at once painting, song, dance, sacred object, and power word. Through their work, we move toward a topological hyperspace of experience, asking once again how emptiness is configured, how topologies extend our worlds, rhythmically (de) forming them, and how maps that sense-across create durations that eventfully alter how experience can unfold.