are not solely dedicated to sound: there is rhythm in inflection, in Kngwarr- eye’s brushstrokes, in William Forsythe’s movement improvisations, in Marey’s chronophotographies.
Rhythm comes to the fore through techniques for invention. Gilbert Simon- don (1995) defines techniques as modalities for the creation of machinic reso- nances that defy a machine’s strict organization. He suggests that a technical system is one where the whole cannot be subsumed to its parts, where what converges is more than the sum of its coordinates. Techniques are imbued with rhythm, they move-with the machine’s own forces of recombination. To under- stand the relay between technique and machine, it is useful to be acquainted with Guattari’s concept of the machinic. For Guattari, the machinic expresses forces of creativity: “A machinic assemblage [is] an assemblage of possible fields, of virtual as much as constituted elements, without any notion of generic or spe- cies’ relation” (1995, 35). Machines demand life: they process always in the realm of the more-than, constantly recombining. Pure plastic rhythm is a machinic way of redefining what a body is, and even more so, what a body can do.
Techniques for invention cannot be captured. When they are, they become redundant: you cannot recompose with something that has already been spoken for. Techniques for invention must remain on the plane of composition. This means that Relationscapes is not a how-to book on movement. It does not provide a theory of movement that can be mapped onto all forms of movement. Each preacceleration must be experienced in its complexity, concepts must be found to invent with it, and tendencies for its actualization have to be diagrammed. When these diagrams are made, they cannot read as maps. They must remain intensities-in-the-making, force fields for future thought. This is what Francis Ba- con means when he evokes the concept (Deleuze 2003). He is not talking about a map but about a field that resonates beyond the image-content of a painting. The diagram is the feeling for the painting that moves with its force for expression.
In chapter 6, I extrapolate from this notion of the diagram toward the concept of the biogram, as proposed by Brian Massumi in “Strange Horizon.”9 I define the biogram as that which propels a becoming-body. This force of becoming is a reconvergence of affective tonalities that transpire into a form that is itself continually mutating. Whereas a diagram makes felt the force of a painting, the biogram propels a moving-with of the ontogenetic body.
Ontogenesis is a reminder not to get stuck in ontologies of being. Ontolo- gies must remain thresholds—from being to becoming, from force to form to force. Identities do take form, but these are always brief individuations. To still
Events of Relation	11
becoming into a lingering identity is to try to stop movement. What must be sought is neither a total becoming nor a fixed identity: the dynamic equilibrium between identity and individuation is metastable. This means that it converges on many planes at once, more stable on some, more active on others. To locate identity as the point of departure of a body is to deny the complexity of the con- current planes of thought, expression, conceptualization, articulation.
Simondon’s concept of the associated milieu is a provocative way of concep- tualizing how different planes converge around a concept. Relationscapes resides in the associated milieu of conceptual metastability. All concepts mobilized for Relationscapes emerged through the process of writing. Never was writing an add-on to this process: writing developed through the activity of thinking-with that movements of thought propel. As with prehensions that invent the subject of perception through their activity of pulling forth, writing wrote me into the process of inventing-with relationscapes.