ancestral women dancing the digging-sticks’ formation across the curved root systems of the yams and other ground vegetables. It is the story of dust rising in the wake of long flowing lines of earth dancing, of women moving through, weaving in, flying above. It is the story of a snake billowing up into the sky on a magic carpet of dust, almost unnoticed by the dancing women. It is the story told around a snake ancestor—Walyankarna—who rests today at Yaturlu Yaturlu (The Granites).
Napangardi is a custodian of the story of the ancestral women with the digging sticks. Her telling of the story keeps it alive as it keeps her Dreaming: the Dream- ing fashions her even as she recreates its eventful momentum in the future-past. Dreamings meander, alive with elements of futurity even as they continue to lay down the Law for generations to come. Like all stories, they are told again and again, taking form in their journey from one iteration to another, inviting the past into a present of its own making. This does not make them any less factual: Dreamings constitute facts even as they express the force of change.
Salt on Mina Mina reverberates with the movement of digging sticks dancing. It is one iteration of a story Dorothy Napangardi will tell many times in the years to come. In this painting, the pathways are multiple, their meeting points infi- nite. Up and down and across, the dotted lines transverse the cloth, populating the canvas with a thousand potential convergences. And yet despite the majestic quietude of the work, it will not sit still long enough to allow us to determine exactly where the encounter takes place.
Stephen Page describes Aboriginal dancing as “foot to earth” (qtd. in Mun- dine 2002, 68). Dancing low to the ground, the movement concentrated in the knees, it is as though the earth itself were moving the body. Salt on Mina Mina dances the earth moving. It does not represent women dancing: it dances their digging, moving-with the trajectory of their passing. These are not dots left be- hind: they are dots in the making. We feel the force of their taking-form. This is why we can’t stop looking, our eyes roving over the work, incapable of finding a resting-point.
Resonant grids are rare. Usually, grids focus the eye, calling us to attention. The grid keeps a convergence between inside and outside, ensuring a contain- ment of the bounds of its in-formation. If a force is felt, it is felt as the outside looking in, a composition of a fixed form, not a recomposing-in-movement. Napangardi’s work undoes the grid, exposing its apparent stability to its own process of unravelling. Making a topology out of a Euclidean geometry, her work propels deformations that pull the whole body into their movement. Salt
188	Chapter 8