on Mina Mina’s affective tonality is one of conjunctive dissonance, a felt rhythm that invents itself in the watching. Watching/feeling Napangardi’s work is like dancing the ancestral women’s dance.
Salt on Mina Mina has calm corners, each of them lined with dots of approxi- mately the same consistency. The frame is quiet, as is the intensive middle, a whiteness of dots vibrating. It is what happens in the toward of the dots’ move- ments that is forceful, not their placing on the canvas as such. This resonance can already be felt in the space between the lines around the edges of the canvas, in the incipiency of the undulating lines moving toward the center. The incipi- ency felt here as the force of movement taking form is created by the intervals between the dots that foreground the sonorous beat of the background becom- ing foreground. What we see are not actually lines but the spaces between the dots, in-filled with intensity as movement pushes to the fore. The line becomes an intensity of vibratory movement—an actual image of an incipiency. The line quivers with movement, still and active at once. We feel movement’s intensity, not its displacement.
The dotted lines in Salt on Mina Mina would not vibrate were it not for the gridding that holds together the painting’s background. The incipient force of the work is felt through the contrast between the white dots and the black back- ground, and between the gridded lines and the not quite meeting of the lines in the foreground. One area of the canvas makes this particularly apparent: toward the center on the right-hand side, a set of dotted lines squiggle, momentarily undoing the linear progression of the movement of the lines toward the white almost-square of the painting’s calm middle. This curvature on a canvas other- wise composed of mostly straight lines gathers our attention to other deviations from the line, to the ways in which the lines in fact resist meeting, to the move- ments of curvature within each becoming-line. Through the contrast between foregrounded curvature and backgrounded grid, a movement takes form that resonates as a vibration more than as a displacement. It is as though we were moving and staying in place at the same time. This is how Djon Mundine de- scribes Aboriginal dance: “Women move in a kind of minimalistic shuffle (not really a step) with the feet always in the sand” (2002, 68).
A shuffle that is not really a step is a quiver. It is an intensive movement that foregrounds not a displacement but a qualitative shift. A dance of the not-yet. Weight on the knees connects the dancer to the earth, giving form to a preaccel- eration that is in deep alliance with the earth moving. Aboriginal dancing dances the earth to listen to its story tell itself. “It’s all about physical memory—to
Constituting Facts	189