be able to tell the story by putting yourself in the movement” (Mundine 2002, 68). This is Salt on Mina Mina’s call: put yourself in the movement.
Digging sticks (Karlangu) are strongly associated with Warlpiri women in Aboriginal culture and are used to dig for yams, goannas, witchetty grubs, and other bush foods. They are also used in the culture for making shelter, fight- ing, and funeral ceremonies. Napangardi’s investment in the digging sticks is twofold. On the one hand, the Dreaming for which she is custodian is intri- cately linked with the digging sticks. Her work depends on their integration as part of the story she tells. And yet her use of the digging sticks is singular. She also uses them as a technology of movement: she paints dots as though digging with the sticks through the earth. This usage of the digging sticks as a technique for painting sets her slightly apart from the tradition of dot-paintings that emerged in Australia around the 1970s.112 Where many painters used the dots as quasi-representational devices (figuring campsites, waterholes, etc.), Na- pangardi’s focus is on a technique for digging, a tool for making dots. Before she paints content, Napangardi paints technique.
To paint technique is to work with the potential of the tools to tell their own story. Instead of giving the form particular content, drawing (with) the tech- nique allows Napangardi to create works that are evocative in their multiplicity while still returning to the ways of speaking, of dancing or singing, of her people. Her paintings evoke the “how” of her culture, keeping the “what” more private. Since the late 1990s, when she started to focus on Mina Mina in her paint- ings, Napangardi has given most of her paintings two titles: Salt on Mina Mina and Karntakurlangu Jukurrpa (Digging-Stick-Possessing Dreaming). There are other titles such as Rain on Mina Mina, Sandhills of Mina Mina, Women’s Dreaming, Karlangu, Inland Sea, but these seem not so much different subjects for painting as different aspects of the two main lineages. What is fascinating about this focus of hers is the way in which her work creates difference within repetition. Returning time and again to the digging sticks, to the dried up lake at Mina Mina (Ngayurru or Lake McKay), to the Women’s Dreaming at this site, she creates an infinity of iterations within one larger theme, each of them a dif-
ferent rhythm dancing the same infinite dance.
Aboriginal culture works on nonlinear timelines. The past infects the present in its future re-activation, alive in the present not as past but as present-taking-form. Time dances into itself rich with past experience re- animated. Moving-with time, Dreamings reinvent an always-changing land- scape that becomes alongside a changing culture. This is why Napangardi can
190	Chapter 8