and incipient trajectories, Rain at Mina Mina (2001) feels blurry, its felt-lines leaking into one another, its passages flowing to create a wide, soft intensity. These paintings, which are like mirror-images of one another, are two forms of a related fact.
What Whitehead would call their “fact of togetherness” is the nexus of the Karntakurlangu Dreaming. This nexus is populated by the various forms the iterations of the Dreaming take, from rain to salt to sand. Each painting dances the Dreaming, foregrounding an aspect of its fact. Seen this way, the “associ- ated works” of Napangardi—the sandhills, the rain, the digging-sticks, the lakebed—find their fact of togetherness. They are divergent encounters with aspects of her Dreaming. Sandhills of Mina Mina (2002) is another of these al- lied iterations in the related fact of Napangardi’s Dreaming. It is not a deriva- tion, but a conjunctive force in the dyad “Salt-Lines/Karntakurlangu.” In this painting—of which there are also many iterations, painted over a period from 2000 onward—Napangardi uses color on a black background, tones of red, blue, ochre with white.
Sandhills of Mina Mina (2002) measures 152 x 152 cm.114 It is a perfect square, and yet its movement defies the strict contours of its imposed frame. Two of the corners seem to move horizontally, and two of them seem to move across, quasi-virtual paths meeting in different areas of the canvas as resonances of mix- ing colors. The affective tonality of the canvas is one of mutedness—it is a calm, flowing work, less jaggedly differentiated than the salt line series, and yet just as complex. Here, Napangardi composes with color, using the complementar- ity of the color-tones to create fields of virtual movement. As a technique in its own right, color here takes over the work of the digging sticks, creating a virtual resonance within the actual shape-shifting of the landscape. The color brings out the landscape in the work, giving consistency to a form-taking that occurs significantly where the color comes together.
In addition to the color creating a foregrounding of flowing form, the size of the dots gives the work a pulsating rhythm. Dots are of different size and consistency throughout Napangardi’s work, but here, the contrast in size is felt singularly as a movement-toward, an inner vibration of a shallow relief created by the pulsation. This is a subtle relief, almost in two dimensions. What we feel is not “landscape” per se, nor “color” in its definiteness, but the very rhythm of the landscape taking form through color. We feel the affective tonality of the composition composing itself. If we abandon ourselves to perception, we see
194	Chapter 8