For Whitehead, facts are never built out of universals. They emerge from con- crete occasions of experience. How these occasions express themselves is the fact of their existence. Napangardi paints matters of fact in flux. The flux is ex- pressed as movement and can be felt through the seriality of her work. Seen as series, Napangardi’s paintings can be said to create a Dreaming nexus. This nexus makes felt the wider complexity of the Dreaming as a continued itera- tion of experience-in-the-making. As part of a wider extensive continuum115 of Aboriginal Law, Napangardi’s work propels the Dreaming-as-nexus toward an iteration of its potential future form-taking. Future facts have a force of their own. Theirs is a force of becoming, a will to power. This will to power provokes feelings that alter the affective tonality of the present-passing. Painting force taking form is a painting for the future in the present. The force of Napangardi’s vision is her capacity to bridge determinate matters of fact with the future muta- tions of expression.
Feelings are associated with facts in Whitehead’s philosophy, with creativity as their conduit. The quality of expression of an artwork is its feeling. Feelings for Whitehead effect the transition of a prehension into an event. The feeling of landscape that becomes the experience of Sandhills of Mina Mina (2002) is a feeling of what the Dreaming had “in mind.” “In mind” refers not to a stable sub- jectivity but to an ontogenetic in-gathering of forces that emanate from the work into the factness of the collective experience it provokes. When Napangardi says she always has her country “in mind” she is referring to a collective iteration— through Dreamings, dances, songs—that gives her in-mindness a resonance of country. The country is not “hers”—it creates her in a collective individuation that lends force to the creative gestures that are her works. This force taking form is the feeling of the work.
The Dreaming itself is a force taking form. Painting the dreaming is a re- gathering of forces of country for the experience of perception. Force works across strata here, from the contagion of the Dreaming as extensive continuum for Aboriginal culture as a whole to the expression of a singular instance of the force of form in the future-present experience of a painting. For Nietzsche, all things are evocations of a history of forces that struggle for iteration. As Deleuze
196	Chapter 8