explains: “The same object, the same phenomenon, changes sense depending on the force which appropriates it” (1983, 3). Force is appetition: hunger for ex- pression. The appetition of an event is the insatiability of its potential. The shift from appetition to form is never a completed passage. In the work’s final form, the force of its potential can still be felt. This is the work’s diagram. The diagram of the work in-gathers the work’s feeling. Whitehead calls the final fact of the work the decision of emphasis. This is how the work satisfies its becoming. This satisfaction is the present-finality of its current iteration.
Painting the Dreaming means working with the force of its potential for reiteration. An encounter with a painting such as Napangardi’s Sandhills of Mina Mina (2002) is therefore both an event in itself associated with a time and place,116 and an engagement with the Dreaming as extensive continuum. Participating at both levels of expression, Napangardi’s paintings foreground the activity of the Dreaming’s reiteration that orients the Dreaming to its onto- genetic potential. The Dreaming becomes a double iteration of multiple sense in the plurality of constellations of its form-taking. Napangardi’s work acti- vates the Dreaming’s potential to create new kinds of futures in the present. Through her work, the Dreaming becomes both a technology of the future and a technique for the present, opening the present to its potential for experiential complexity. Open to the indeterminacy of experience, Dreamings such as those evoked through Napangardi’s work resonate with an ontogenetic plurality of sense(s).
In creating work that remains open to an infinity of potential evocations, Na- pangardi’s art risks that the iterations of her Dreaming be colonized, immobi- lized, arrested within dominant belief systems. The plurality alive in her work always risks being overtaken by the forces of encounter it invites. And yet, para- phrasing Nietzsche, Deleuze writes: “A force would not survive if it did not first of all borrow the features of the forces with which it struggles” (1983, 5). Active force always risks capture by reactive force. Such capture might result in the “translation,” the “rendering” of Napangardi’s work within a stabilizing narrative of identity or representation. Yet, like much Aboriginal artwork, Napangardi’s art resists this risk, its complexity of iterations foregrounding the force of the Dreaming’s mutations of expression rather than simply giving a narrative to the present fully formed. Perhaps this is due to the fact that Dreamings themselves have survived changing worlds (more than 50,000 years of continuous history in Australia), which suggests that they are capable of working with a coexistence of forces, bending to pressures when necessary and reemerging stronger. Their
Constituting Facts	197