will to power, as felt in Napangardi’s work, seems to be their very readiness for reemergence in a continuous dance of eternal return.
“What a will wants is to affirm its difference” (Deleuze 1983, 9). The will to power is the differential element of force. Through the will to power, force takes form. It does so by exercising its will not on a subject but on another will. The will to power of the Dreaming is the creation of novelty within the everlasting. Systems of Law that foreground the ontogenetic potential of the new, Dreamings are at once forces of the becoming-landscape (iterations of the landscape’s infi- nite potential for renewal) and forces of creation. Dreamings will life and more life. For this life to take form ontogenetically, certain facts of existence must hold. As matters of fact, the Laws that are encompassed by the Dreamings impose en- abling constraints on experience that open the landscape to concrete potentials. These Laws give shape to the extensive continuum that is the virtual nexus of life’s force of becoming by constraining it into patterns of resonance. These pat- terns can take the form of songlines, of dances, of emergent formations within the landscape. They create a relationscape out of the landscape-animal-human series that does not seek to differentiate between the virtual and the real. Dreams are activities for the virtual fact of existence made concrete.
Take two more of Napangardi’s canvases, this time both titled Karntakurlangu Jukurrpa. Both paintings were made in 2000. One of them measures 137.5 x
152.5 cm—an imperfect square—the other 130 x 239.5 cm—an elongated rect- angle. Karntakurlangu Jukurrpa (2000a) is the more colorful of the two—with ochre as well as black and white. The two paintings are very different, and yet that they express the same matter of fact can be felt. The “how” of their expres- sion—the force of form they make felt—is how they relate on the shared nexus of the Karntakurlangu Dreaming.
Karntakurlangu Jukurrpa (2000a) is composed of unevenly spaced squares composed of meandering dots. The effect is of geometrical shapes emerging from the two-dimensional canvas with virtual pathways between them revealing lines in the making. The edges of the canvas are whiter, which makes them re- cede, calling attention to the canvas’s disjunctive center. As in all of Napangardi’s work, the diagram is wide, yet restrained. It feels as though the force of the work is an emergent way of looking more than an actual taking-form. The diagram of the painting—its feeling of force taking form—is itself in movement.
In the second of this 2000 series, Karntakurlangu Jukurrpa (2000b), the black and white of the dots moving into lines is significantly horizontal, lead- ing toward a center opening that is more white than black. And yet, despite
198	Chapter 8