Napangardi’s Karntakurlangu Jukurrpa (2000b) as the violence of a certain force of possession taking over.
Napangardi would never purposefully evoke a Dreaming not hers to tell. That strands of Dreamings emerge ontogenetically within tellings of adjacent stories emphasizes the inherent fact of relationality that is at the heart of Dreamings as a whole. In her evocation of the Karntakurlangu Jukurrpa (2000b), Napan- gardi does not tell the story of the snake’s rape, and yet its presence within the larger Dreaming nexus seems to taint her Dreaming. The force of the eternal return of the Dreaming seems to be felt in Karntakurlangu Jukurrpa (2000b). This feeling is not a narrative that seeks to tell a missing part of a story. It is a force for the telling that is violent in its expression.
In Napangardi’s evocation of the Karntakurlangu Dreaming in Karntakur- langu Jukurrpa (2000b), what is also noteworthy is the recuperative power of the violence. This is not reactive force personalized, resentfully reclaim- ing the past in an act of ressentiment.119 It is a future-taking of the present, a reaching-toward creation. Napangardi’s Karntakurlangu Jukurrpa (2000b) af- firms the force of the Dreaming, willing it to express new manifestations of mul- tiple sense. These manifestations are not morally inflected. They resist morality, giving equal tenure to the snake, the woman, the digging-stick. They learn-with the dynamism of the relationscape created out of their complex encounters in the future-present.
This acting of force on force that can be felt in Napangardi’s work is a re- turning of the return, an eternal spiralling movement that makes the cycle of time felt. What is felt through this evocation of the Dreaming is time’s intensive magnitude—its chthonic movement—and its infinite cycle of return. This is not incessant sameness—it is differential becoming, force acting on force to affirm difference at every turn. “Existence begins in every instant; the ball There rolls around every Here. The middle is everywhere. The path of eternity is crooked” (Nietzsche 1961, 234).
Dreamings are both actual occasion and extensive continuum, the world as it happens and the world as it envelops its happening. Law and event, experience and force of apparition, Dreamings cycle time. Their determinacy is a matter of fact, their indetermination their appetition. Force for expression makes itself felt in the Dreaming’s infinite desire to take form once more. When an iteration of a particular Dreaming takes form—such as in Napangardi’s Karntakurlangu Jukurrpa (2000c), the continuum of the Dreaming as nexus is altered. The new version of the Karntakurlangu becomes part of the fact of the Dreaming as both
Constituting Facts	201