event and continuum. Dreaming in its totality is thus virtually present in every new actual occasion of the Dreaming. In turn, every new iteration alters the intensive magnitude of the Dreaming’s extensive continuum.
This extensive-intensive relation is felt everywhere in Napangardi’s work. It is a tension alive in the lines she carves into the canvas through the digging-stick dots. In Karntakurlangu Jukurrpa (2000c), measuring 122 x 122 cm, this ten- sion is foregrounded. Another square painting (in its dimensions), Karntakur- langu Jukurrpa (2000c) evokes a complex surface of dots becoming-squares unbecoming-squares, the tone a rust color with white on a black background. This painting makes the force of the landscape’s curvature felt. Along the edges, the squares are quite uniform, but as they begin to merge toward the middle, the dotted lines seem to bend. The activity of the squares’ deformation is the event of the work. This intensive becoming-topological of the painting’s fold- ing surface draws the gaze to the left-of-center of the canvas, where the squares seem to recede to make space for the painting’s eventual deformation. Here, the painting’s becoming-form pulsates. The dynamic encounter is not between background and foreground but between curve and line, making felt a quali- tative transmutation that morphs the painting from its squareness toward an intensive infinity of infolding. This diagrammatic infolding is less a shape than a feeling of force pushing into the painting’s insistent deformation. The col- lapse of Euclidean geometry is felt as the tension of topological undoing. Force fights form, exposing the inner relations of tension in the becoming-landscape’s curvature.
The extensive continuum is virtual. It has not yet been divided into space- time. The actual occasions that populate it, on the other hand, are firmly posi- tioned in experiential space-time. That the Dreaming cooperates on both the virtual and the actual strata is emphasized by the Dreaming’s adherence to a non-linear cycle of time, where what returns is not “time-as-it-was” but “time- as-it-will-become.” This is a time of the future-past, a present in the making. The relationship between the forces of movement’s intensive magnitude and the ex- tensive continuum creates space-times of experience through which the return returns. This eternal return “is not the ‘same’ or the ‘one’ which comes back. . . . Return is itself the one which ought to belong to diversity and to that which dif- fers” (Deleuze 1983, 46). Resistant to equilibrium, the relation between actual occasions and the extensive continuum incites time to become infinite not as a straight line of measured chronology but as an intensive magnitude. Time rolls into experience even as experience creates time.
202	Chapter 8