Napangardi’s artworks are “drops of perception” (James 1996, 172). They are transitional facts that alter the vast resonance of the extensive continuum even while taking part in the actuality of the future-past taking form. There is no final state, no point of adherence where the fact becomes itself once and for all. The Dreaming’s matter of fact is the potential of life to continue to become. “That the present moment is not a moment of being or of present ‘in the strict sense,’ that it is the passing moment, forces us to think of becoming, but to think of it precisely as what could not have started, and cannot finish, becoming” (Deleuze 1983, 48). The Dreaming has no ultimate identity: it is that out of which relationscapes are born. Its story is its dance of becoming.
“Now I am nimble, now I fly, now I see myself under myself, now a god dances with me” (Nietzsche 1961, 69). To paint with country “in mind” is to paint from the sky, to paint-with the world emergent. Aboriginal artists have always painted as though from above with the ground “in mind,” feeling the world through its incipient movements rather than asking it to emerge fully formed. Theirs is a form of perception that activates the “drops,” catching them in a collective net of creative undoing. Their art does not represent a landscape. It undoes it to redo it, feeling-with its inner movements, catching its tendencies in the pass- ing, dancing their force. Napangardi’s paintings evoke a feeling for a landscape that begins with relation, revealing its topologies alive in the here and now of future-pastness. The here and now is not a space or a time as such: it is a topo- logical becoming on the nexus of experiential space-time.
Napangardi paints the complexity of life’s contrasts, inviting the Dreaming to take form at the interstices of shades of becomings. These shades of becom- ing come to expression in movement throughout the work. Inventing-with the Dreaming’s incessant movement, she paints its abstract concreteness, experienc- ing its abstraction as real, inviting the virtual to coexist with the actual force of the work-emergent. The work’s appetite is felt as the force of the virtual taking form through the movement of its dance.
Napangardi creates contrasts by making the interval felt. The contrasts that populate her work are forces of vibration. They are modes of transduction be- tween the technique—the digging sticks—and the iteration—the dots. Nei- ther exists independently: as Whitehead points out, creativity is a social effort (1929/1978, 223). The interval would not exist without the actual dots that force it into emergence. The force of the interval can be strikingly felt in Napangardi’s
204	Chapter 8