forces of expression. The experience of participating in the force of her work taking form gives us a feeling for the Dreaming’s own will to power. This feeling for the Dreaming is experienced through the evolution of the transduction from actual occasion to nexus to extensive continuum. We feel the movement not as a given but as an active force of self-determination. This is a political act. Con- stituting facts involves pulling the Dreaming into experiential space-time not as a completed story but as an effect of the story’s reverberate force for the present. Napangardi does not simply paint her Dreamings, she evokes the whole nexus of what a Dreaming can do through the intensive magnitude of the active force of the Dreamings’ will to power.
Feeling the nexus means feeling the abstract concretely. The abstract and the concrete overlap in an eternal transvaluation of return. As Deleuze writes: “Re- turning is everything but everything is affirmed in a single moment” (1983, 72). This time paradox is only a paradox if we take becoming to emerge from be- ing. The Dreaming makes no such claim. As is expressed through Napangardi’s work, Dreamings are not evocations of a particular space-time. Dreamings are rhythm, contrast, vibration. Dreaming narratives are singular expressions of networks of force taking form.
Napangardi creates events for creative advance. Her work gives power: “The will to power is essentially creative and giving: it does not aspire, it does not seek, it does not desire, above all, it does not desire power. It gives” (Deleuze 1983, 85). Napangardi’s paintings are plastic, variable, mobile iterations of the will to power that is the Dreaming in its infinity of variations. Hers are not general iterations: they are specific events, dated evocations, infinite reiterations of how the Dreaming’s will to power can extend beyond the continuum to the everyday, toward the conjunctive disjunction of the future-past. With her paintings, Na- pangardi creates new feelings for thought, new images for movement.
“An intensive experience is an aesthetic fact,” writes Whitehead (1929/1978, 279). Napangardi moves-with the Dreamings, dreaming their movement. She dances the dance of her people, low to the ground, movement barely seen but intensely felt, its magnitude multiply sensed. Inviting the force of movement to take hold of the image, her work propels the Dreaming toward the multiplicity of its univocity. “Once more!” it sings. Here, where the many become one and are increased by one, Napangardi dances.