one, connected. Connection, not the locus of all beginnings, but the invisible- but-palpable link between bodies. To move together, the connection must be alive. As they move, they reconnect. Call it a relational shape-shifting. Potential physical points of contact: chest, arm, stomach, shoulder, breast. William For- sythe calls this cz, the connection between two limbs where “the pressure of one limb on the other gives the alterations in the skeletal mechanic” (2003, 65). In relational movement10 we will not always have the same contact, but contact will remain. This contact will be the impetus for creating movement. Remember: we also shape-shift at a distance.
We take a step. My step leads me forward, but before I can step I must call on you to move almost before my own displacement. It is this almost-before I must communicate. This silent question takes the form of an opening. Technically: the energy that is preaccelerating through my body convenes in a direction that can be harnessed. The direction becomes a potential movement that reposi- tions an almost-shifting body in a towardness that has not yet actually moved. The towardness draws you in. What they see: we move forward together—I step forward, she steps back. It looks seamless. Result: they think this must be choreographed.
“I consider choreography to be a secondary result of dancing” (Forsythe 2003, 24). The appearance of choreography signals a reaction to a movement that seems to have been known in advance. Yet nothing here is known in advance. What moves is a feeling more than a direction. The feeling can be harnessed into a repetition—a choreography of sorts. But what emerges in the first instance is an openness toward moving, a movement moving.
The concept of preacceleration is a way of thinking the incipiency of move- ment, the ways in which movement is always on the verge of expression. Bodies invent motion incessantly, creating habits to satisfy the carrying out of these inventions. These habits tell us how to keep our balance as we take one step after another, how to reach the floor with our toes as we crawl out of bed in the morning, how to find the bathroom at night without running into the walls. Proprioception provides us with clues that precede our cognitive understanding of where we are going.11 Preacceleration: we are going, always already.
The dancer’s body—in the case of relational movement, the two of us moving together—provides a glimpse into the ways in which movement creates the po- tential for unthinking dichotomies that populate our worlds: abstract-concrete, organic-prosthetic, alive-dead, mind-body, actual-virtual, man-woman. It’s not that movement directly undermines these dialectical concepts. It’s that
Incipient Action	15