These landing sites are not stable places, not geographical categories. They are not where the choreography begins and ends. They are what the focal points of the techniques of the dancing choreography open up.
A choreographed encounter is never wholly what it seems. You can’t really choreograph movement. Movement slips through the grid, it micromoves into morphings not only unforeseeable but even unseeable, microperceptions more virtual than actual. I can train you to move-toward a sense of space, toward a quality of speed, of extension. I can offer you openings for the creations of expe- riential space-times. But I can’t choreograph your landing sites.
This is because we are constantly in a process of fielding our surroundings, which also field us. How we think-feel a space-time of experience alters where and how we can experience it. This fielding is how Arakawa and Gins define a landing site. A landing site is an activity that is as expressive as it is orga- nizational, a landing not so much into a place as a “dancing into attendance” (Arakawa and Gins 2002, 7).
There is never just one landing site. Landing sites fold into one another, creat- ing infoldings of perception in the making. In the first sequence of Rosas danst Rosas, there is an infinity of potential landing sites interconnecting, perceived with the incipient movements of the dancers dancing. “Landing sites dissolve into each other, or abut, or overlap, or nest within one another” (Arakawa and Gins 2002, 8). But there is a tonality of landing that stands out for the viewer: it is the invitation to watch-feel the movement as the camera catches it in its for- mation. This activity of catching the movement directs our watching, giving it a consistency that moves the intensity of the dance into our perceptual field. We catch that intensity and feel its tonality in each of the movements of the camera. It’s as though we were watching the camera move the dancers as it moves us.
Landing sites choose us, creating an associated milieu that worlds the body- environment. “The events are decision-like but far from . . . decisions” (Arakawa and Gins 2002, 9). Decision is used here in a Whiteheadian sense as the becoming- actual of a virtual potential. For Whitehead decision is what gives the event form, and by consequence, creates an individuation. The decision of the landing site is its focusing into experience. We land into the focus of an awareness that becomes us. “Actuality is the decision amid potentiality” (Whitehead 1929/1978, 42). The decision is the separating-off, the honing in that makes a particular tonality take form. A decision creates the potential for consciousness, not the other way around. A decision is like a “hook onto the environment to gain trac- tion on it” (Arakawa and Gins 2002, 8).
Cornering a Beginning	211