Landing sites flock experience into a univocity. They are singular and mul- tiple at once. In the scene with the heads slowly moving to the floor, the landing site is both a certain quality of hardness as well as a grounding of weightlessness. The siting of ground is also a landing into thin air—“even a mere intimation of a singling-out equals having landed on and sited” (Arakawa and Gins 2002, 10–11).
Looking with Thierry de Mey’s looking with Anne Teresa de Keersmaek- er’s Rosas dancing with Rosas is a nesting within nests of potential landing sites. The camera directs with de Keersmaeker’s choreographic directives, moving-with the bodies dancing. To choreograph becomes a double move- ment, a dancing-with the dancers dancing for the camera. The rhythmic in- tensity of the film depends on this double-movement that seeks not to order the movements as preliminary to the event, but to move-with their movement moving. The camera defines landing sites for perception, giving us hooks for our own process of landing.
Arakawa and Gins outline three categories of landing sites: some are “per- ceptual,” some are “dimensionalizing,” and some are “imaging.” The perceptual landing sites work as a foregrounding of a conscious perception from the murki- ness of experience as a whole. The dimensionalizing landing sites give the fore- ground a sense of measure, a traction. The imaging landing sites field widely, working-through a haze of microperceptions in the folding. To look-with move- ment moving is to experience this third kind of landing. Imaging landing sites are active at the level of the as-yet unprocessed, at the cusp of what James calls pure experience.
Like a looking-into thin air, imaging landing sites have a quality of daydream- ing. They are perceptions at the level of presentational immediacy, where what we perceive is the experiential qualities of perception in the making. The film of Rosas danst Rosas experiments with perception dancing, capturing both the specificity of the measure of choreography landing and the haze of its microper- ceptual imaging. We become sited in the fielding of the quasi chaos of micro- perceptions, an experience that leaves us out of breath, our muscles tense with the twitching of kinaesthetic empathy. We move with the intensive magnitude of the micromovements moving.
“Nothing happens without kinaesthetic instigation, corporeal proddings” (Arakawa and Gins 2002, 11). Watching Rosas danst Rosas is a moving-with that animates our capacity for landing. This does not happen solely through the visuals. The experience of watching-with Rosas danst Rosas is profoundly
212	Interlude