audiovisual, the sound of the score and of the breathing altering the rhythms of our perception. We feel the rhythm as it lands us.
It’s not that we’re trying to land. “A looming non-focused-upon area . . . gets continually supplied, or roughed in, or approximated, by imaging landing sites” (Arakawa and Gins 2002, 12). The landing sites are there for the experiencing. They virtually co-constitute experience as it forms. As bodies recombine with them, the experience becomes “generalized.” This means it becomes tainted with a quality, a feeling. Its affective tone resonates. It lands us. Suddenly we are no longer simply watching four bodies moving. We are feeling movement moving. We are moving-with our watching. Fielding the finding-form of micropercepti- bility, we move-with the movement even as we are moved by it.
This moving-with is what Arakawa and Gins call a quasi-registering. It gives rise to an affective tonality rather than a particular emotion. The affect pre- dominates, not the culmination of its place-taking. Imaging landing sites are shape-shifters. They give affective resonance to the relation between experience and feeling. Morphing, they give force to the taking-form of the experience.
Landing sites corner beginnings. The ambient wholeness of the world at large is impossible to take in. It doesn’t exist without a simplification, a prehension of an aspect of its potential to take form. Landing sites are how that pulling out of the nexus body-world fields an experience. “The more ambiguous the surroundings, the greater the number of imaging landing sites . . . needed for making determinations and giving things shape” (Arakawa and Gins 2002, 17). Imaging landing sites are virtual events in the making. They foreground the kinaesthetic flickering that propels the taking form of an event. In Rosas danst Rosas, the push-pull of the watching-dancing is felt as a tensile relation, an active becoming-with of the event forming. The landing sites of this event in formation give its tonality shape. Landing sites are “event markers in and of the event-fabric that is organism-person-environment” (Arakawa and Gins 2002, 22). Landing sites corner experience in the making.