tone. The shots are long and languid, their slowness rich with the eventfulness of sensation-in-the-making.
There is a shift in tone. The camera once again filming from behind her, we observe a quieter sound: paper flittering against the framed vista of the yard out- side. The almost-sound of the paper moving is felt as a change in atmosphere. Then, sped up through the flittering gesture of her wrist, Baggs’s voice modu- lates, hitting a demi-tone. We are moving again to the rhythm of the earlier sec- tion as we watch the spiral of the paper shape-shift into Baggs’s twirling motion around the knobs of a dresser. From object-sound-creation (the flittering paper) to gesture-object-movement (twirling around the knob), her tonal voice-sound resonant throughout, this section of Baggs’s video makes experiential musicality felt as a sound-moving-with and a moving-with-sound. This creates an amodal relay that distributes sound throughout the sensing body in movement as both the effect of movement and the instigator of experiential space-time. We experi- ence this sound-movement tonally, affectively, through a rhythmic reinvention of the environment’s sensory dimensions.
Baggs approaches not objects as such but their relational potential. No ob- ject is taken simply for what it seems to be, nor does it seem separate from her own becoming-body: each object seems to modulate the resonance of her voice, expressing its own becoming-movement in tandem with the environment moving.
The second part of In My Language, entitled “My Translation,” is not a simple recasting of Baggs’s world through language. “My Translation” is a transduction of the first part: it brings the plane of feeling onto the plane of articulation, call- ing forth the more-than of language’s expressibility.
Throughout “My Translation,” as Baggs attempts to articulate her complex multisensory environment through words, she continues to create relational en- counters that render the linguistic space more intricate than words can connote. She speaks, but she also rocks, smells, touches, tastes, observes, feeling-with the environment. The experience of watching her articulating space-times of expe- rience suggests that there is something about the eventness of Baggs’s responsive environment that we’ll never know, because to know it is to feel it. Communica- tion through words will always fall short. Yet there is no question that articula- tion through language is capable of conveying a certain complexity, bridging the worlds of sensory eventness with the affective tonality of language in the making such that a dialogue between these co-arising worlds can begin. In “My Transla- tion,” Baggs begins to show us how to articulate felt thought.
Propositions for Thought in Motion	215