Baggs’s finger plays in the stream of running water. She speaks—her speech delivered by a voice synthesizer: “In this part of the video, the water doesn’t symbolize anything. I am just interacting with the water as the water interacts with me.” Language does not replace the sensual exploration of the relational environment: it moves with it, becoming one more technique for composition. For Baggs, communication through words remains inadequate to the singular experiences of sensation the world calls forth. Words are an extra component of the experience of articulation, not its final form. Words, Baggs suggests, cannot fully express experience’s complexity. Her “translation” must therefore evoke more than the manifestation of words. It must transduce the event of language’s becoming-with sensation. Language must be called forth as a layering-with of the affective tonality of expression.
Baggs creates relational nexuses that expose the world at the incipience of its sensory becoming. This sensory becoming is a form of thought. Articulation of that thought implies restricting the complexity of thoughts’ prearticulation to a content-based structure of expression. Baggs resists this simplification, opting not against words but for relational complexity. Baggs explains:
Far from being purposeless, the way that I move is an ongoing response to what is around me. Ironically, the way that I move when responding to everything around me is de- scribed as “being in a world of my own,” whereas if I interact with a much more limited set of responses and only react to a much more limited part of my surroundings people claim that I am “opening up to true interaction with the world.”
In My Language elaborates the sensory experience of thought’s imma- nent prearticulation. It feels the world, thinking with it, rather than simply speaking of it. “But my language is not about designing words or even visual symbols for people to interpret. It is about being in a constant conversation with every aspect of my environment, reacting physically to all parts of my surroundings.”
Baggs articulates felt thought. To articulate thinking-feeling is to activate the conceptual at work in the prearticulation of the experiential. To bring concepts to life rather than simply the contours of things is the first step in expressing the force of a relational environment. Bringing potential relations into actual experience, as Baggs notes, is “a way of thinking in its own right.” Thought is more than a form-taking of words. It is an incipience that proposes articula- tion through sensation. Thought is a proposition for feeling-in-motion. It is experience’s complex instigator, a force that operates at the relational cusp of becoming-events.
216	Conclusion