movement allows us to approach them from another perspective: a shifting one. When we are no longer still, the world lives differently.
We can think of movement in at least two ways:
1. I enter a room and see that room as preexisting me. I walk across the room, drawing an imaginary line that cuts the space.
2. My movement creates the space I will come to understand as “the room.” The room is defined as my body + the environment, where the environment is an atmospheric body. Without that particular moving body that particular envi- ronment does not exist.
In Umberto Boccioni’s terms, the first way of thinking movement might be termed “relative movement” and the second “absolute movement.” In the first instance, we participate in a hylomorphic quandary where form preexists mat- ter.12 The matter—my body—enters into the form—the room. Both body and room are pregiven in this instance. The room defines the limits of my body’s po- tential. In the second instance of “absolute movement,” individuation occurs in intimate connection between the moving body and its atmospheric potential.
The room becomes configuring as the body recomposes. There is no “body it- self ” here because the body is always more than “itself,” always reaching toward that which it is not yet. The not-yet takes form through the intensities of preac- celeration that compel recompositions at the level of both strata, the body and the room. What this means is that both body and space are experienced as alive with potential movement. The body-room series takes on an infinite variety of potential velocities. These velocities take form at certain intervals, remaining virtual at others. The body-room stratum is therefore neither object nor form, but infinite potential for recombination. When an event takes form within this malleable stratum, there is a configuration. Displacement is one such event. When a displacement actually occurs—directing the force of preacceleration that holds the series in anticipation—a shift takes place that alters the coordi- nates of space-time, beginning the process anew, bringing new configurations to the machinic phylum body-room.13
The body-room series opens the way for thinking the “pure plastic rhythm” of bodies. For Boccioni, “pure plastic rhythm” is not “the construction of bodies, but the construction of the action of bodies” (1964, 48). In his work, Boccioni is concerned with sculpting the body, not as an immobile body that is modeled as though it were in motion, but as a body in movement. To sculpt movement is to prolong a spiral potential that is already inherent to matter. This prolongation of
16	Chapter 1