Thought prehends prearticulations from the complex nexus that is the world in motion. Prearticulation is the preacceleration of language: it is where lan- guage’s affective tonality comes to expression. The world in motion is made up of planes of experience. The passage from the plane of sensation to the plane of articulation, a movement toward the actual from the virtual stratum, depends on thought’s capacity to extract from the virtual quasi chaos of experience’s po- tential unfolding. This extraction is a kind of editing of the nexus.
Bridging a vocabulary of movement with one of language requires con- cepts for thinking affective resonance within linguistic enunciation. Here, An- drei Tarkovsky’s concept of editing might be useful. For Tarkovsky, editing is immanent to the flow of audio-images that make up the film as captured on camera. Editing is not something you impose onto the work: it is a prehension of the rhythms already virtually present in the work. Editing foregrounds the backgrounded rhythm of the work. In Baggs’s video, editing functions not as the after-effect of language’s imposed structure on her musical environment. Editing from within is the way language speaks through her tonal dance, the way its prearticulations can already be felt in the intervals out of which thought is provoked.
Language and thought are often situated at two extremes of a process of enun- ciation. For Baggs, the sensory experience of worlding does not imply a lack of language: enunciation is simply one aspect of language’s tangible expressivity. Other forms of languages-in-the-making exist. These can be felt in the emer- gence of concepts for thought in motion articulated throughout In My Lan- guage. For Baggs, concepts are connected to feeling—the sensing of a texture is as important as the reading of words. These languages are not “less than” spoken words—they are the more-than of language’s expressibility. Spoken words are the selected extraction from the nexus of experience that converge into appearance.
The plane of composition through which articulation eventually emerges is populated by the thought of the work, its inner rhythm. Deleuze and Guattari
Propositions for Thought in Motion	217