move thought, inviting the conceptual escape of “the action of invisible forces on the body” (Deleuze 2003, 36). Diagrams rhythmically call forth the relation thought-expression.
Diagrams give value to thought in the making. Valuation orients thought, proposing it as a concept for future thinking. It is integral to the process of an ac- tual occasion taking form, but is felt as such only in the event’s final satisfaction. With this satisfaction comes an inclination toward determinate expression. The process of valuation self-selects tendencially, leading the event toward certain areas of potential on the thought-world nexus. Each valuation adds a singular resonance to the nexus and becomes a potential for other actual occasions to take form, inflecting novelty into the world.
Nietzsche implores, “Value! Don’t evaluate!” He proposes we conceive of value as a differential vector in the process of creation. Valuing is a form of prearticulation tantamount to the incipient process of movement’s preaccelera- tion taking form. It underscores the force of expression. In language, valuation is how words are culled from the nexus, their enunciation always coupled with their force of expression. Foregrounding valuation within language emphasizes the amodal relays that make words felt. Words: valuations that move between complex relays from gesture to sound, from vision to touch. Valuing the in- cipient quality of expression is to feel language’s impulse, to express the taking form of thought moving. Valuation is an immanent process that situates expres- sion’s final form in a relational attitude toward the world where language dances thought’s becoming-form.
Amanda Baggs’s orchestral expression of the series object-sound-gesture is strangely reminiscent of Lygia Clark’s relational objects.123 Clark’s relational ob- jects create worlds: this is how their value is felt. These objects—plastic bags filled with breath, nets with stones in them—are of little artistic value in and of themselves. The value of Clark’s relational objects is not expressed in their capacity to stand alone as objects. It is felt in the emergent qualities their cou- pling with bodies in relation brings forth. Their value lies in how the forces of potential express themselves in their relational movement toward the world. As with the “how” of the gesture-object-sound composition of Baggs’s emergent musical environment, Clark’s relational objects produce events in the making that are defined by the constraints of their pairings. These constraints are the limits borne out of the environment that incite the ways in which complex series can conjunctively take form.
Propositions for Thought in Motion	219