Feeling is a pulsion to think, a sensitivity that situates thought in the world: through feeling, thought’s affective tonality is foregrounded. Feeling is affect bleeding into thought, activating complexities on the verge of expression. At the threshold of thought as creation, feeling provokes an aperture for that which has not yet been thought. Thought is a lure for feeling that prearticulates the virtual inflections of its incipient expression.
For Whitehead, feeling is the pulsion that transduces thoughts into becoming-concepts. On the plane of feeling, there are both determinations and appetitions. When a thought takes form, it moves from indetermination toward terminal determination. A feeling’s determination is the form it takes as a con- cept. In spoken language, a concept is always more-than: it holds in reserve the virtual potential of thought-taking-form that words by themselves cannot quite articulate. This indetermination is the concept’s appetition: its inherent poten- tial for future invention.
Baggs invites us to participate in the complex interplay of the transversal passage between thought, concept, and articulation. Through feeling, thought begins to take form as a conceptual force. We experience textures giving way to qualities of form. We hear movement becoming sound. A tension is felt be- tween the determination of language signifying and prearticulation’s appetition. The milieu of appetition in Baggs’s responsive environment is the relay created through the valuation of musical resonance that activates the conjunctive series object-sound-gesture and the prearticulation of an incipient worlding.
In “My Translation,” Baggs is clear that words cannot fully convey the affec- tive tonality of the environment that co-constitutes her, leaving us with a sense of hunger for what cannot be expressed. Yet what she does not explicitly say is that this very hunger is also part of how language expresses itself, an appetition that makes thought felt not as an add-on but in its incipient relation to the un- iterability of prearticulation. This valuing of emergence complexifies language as the post-iteration of a prefeeling. In My Language makes felt how language moves between planes, exposing the prearticulation of thought as well as the affectivity of expression. Feeling-with becomes a propensity both within and beyond the form-taking of words, a reaching-toward that propels novelty into the world. This novelty is not expressed solely in words, but neither are words precluded from it. The novelty is rhythm, its force of becoming felt as conjunc- tive in future series that might use words as relational objects.
It is not only the subject of Baggs’s video that is inventive but the process itself. Baggs’s video would not be as powerful were it simply a description of how her
Propositions for Thought in Motion	221