process moves through a prearticulation that makes concepts felt. The force of her video is the appetition it produces in the viewer to feel again, to think-with and know more. With more than 630,000 hits,124 In My Language has clearly struck a chord beyond the initial curiosity about autism. In My Language evokes a feeling for articulation that moves us, literally altering our place—the place of language—in the world. It foregrounds language not as a personal enunciation but as a collective event articulated through relational series. In Baggs’s video, prearticulation becomes preacceleration: the reaching-toward of expression as conceptual unfolding. We are moved to think.
One work can have many dynamic forms, many concepts, many feelings or thoughts. There is no single point of identity for a work. Baggs is not the subject of In My Language: prearticulation is. The work’s subject is its dynamic form, its valuation, its conceptual resonance, its diagram. Holding to the subject as cre- ative motor stabilizes the forces of becoming. Getting beyond this subjectivizing stance is the politics of In My Language. Holding the video to a representation of Baggs would situate her as the subject of autism. This would set her apart in a world of her own. This is exactly what In My Language struggles against. In My Language creates its own subject, making felt a force for expression that moves a particular mode of thought-feeling to its evolution as a language-in-the-making. Its subject is the force of becoming it proposes, a force for rethinking as much as a force for the experience of sensation’s relays toward prearticulation. Baggs’s video forces the passage from experience to expression, making felt the intrinsic value in the complex transduction between planes of prearticulation, including that of the political.
In My Language is not about one language. It is about how a language must al- ways be invented in tandem with the force of the unknowable, its appetition for novelty kept alive. This feeling for the new proposes a taking-form of language where language becomes less a syntax than a milieu for expression.
In My Language concresces—takes final form—at the end of the first section, and then again, differently, in the second part. The first concrescence is felt as a symphony of complex inframodal relations between objects, gesture, and sound. The experiential quality of this first section of the video culminates in a resonant vibration of a relational environment that suggests that language is composed of a prearticulated worlding of concepts in the making. The second part, “My Translation,” has a different rhythm, punctuated this time with words. Here, thought is experienced as a node of expression, its concrescence not the words as such, but the relay that punctuates the gestures moving-through in tandem
222	Conclusion