the spiral is what Boccioni calls dynamism, or dynamic form. Pure plastic rhythm is dynamic form in potentia. In a Spinozean gesture, Boccioni seeks to create a movement that is preaccelerated, a movement that never stops, yet has not come to full expression through displacement. That a body moves without displacing itself means that rest becomes an instance of absolute movement. Rest becomes an activity of rhythm. Boccioni calls this continuity in space. Continuity in space does not imply a static concept of space with a moving body transposed into its interior. For Boccioni, space moves. What Boccioni (with the other Futurists) seeks is a simultaneity of form and content where the virtual (preacceleration) is felt as creating a simultaneity of body and environment. Preacceleration forces movement to take form: “By its centrifugal direction, the form-force is the po- tential of the living form” (Boccioni 1964, 48). Force taking form.
Boccioni does not seek a representation of movement. He creates movement. To create movement is not to sculpt movement’s illusion. It is to make move- ment felt in the recreation of new body-world series. This sculptural ambition is political. Through it, the political achieves a thickness, a volume. The immobile silhouette of the stable subject is usurped by a recomposing body that “seeks complete fusion of environment and object by means of the interpenetration of planes” (Boccioni 1964, 49). Gesture becomes dynamic: there are not two legs moving, but twenty. It’s all about rhythm: “Rhythm appears, not only dependent on the velocity, fastness, and linear measurement of an extensive movement, but also on the intensive capacity of the body, on its passage between direct po- tential states and its affective relations to the states of other bodies” (Portanova 2005, 34).
Duration is key. The two dancers have now taken a step forward. Their em- brace connects them. It is not the touch “as such” that holds them to one another, but the movement-toward that is the continuous repetition of the touch.14 This inframodal experience of touching awakens their bodies to all kinds of percep- tions, alerting the dancers to the continuous recompositions of the space-times that world them.15 Inframodal vitality propels the dancers to become more- than, to embody more than the strict envelopes of their individual bodies. The dancers begin to feel the dance take over. They feel the openings before they rec- ognize them as such, openings for movement that reach toward a dance of the not-yet. What takes place in this not-yet? Facing forward on the crowded dance floor, I feel the urgent presence of bodies moving behind me. Even if they seem still, they press against my back, creating space in front of me. The music lends urgency to the moment. The music begins to move us. I lead an interval. This
Incipient Action	17