toward relation. How thought becomes relational is how language begins to take form. With prearticulation comes a feeling-with that proposes the potential of a taking form. This event in the making articulates itself in an infinity of ways, sensingly, linguistically, affectively. The terminus of language is the propen- sity for expression that forces an immanent conjunction into appearance. The concept proposes an actual occasion that affects experience-in-the-making by foregrounding nodes of relation that are themselves relays between different qualities of potential expressivity. Language folds in on termini, its impetus for expression always allied to the force of its prearticulation.
“Whatever terminates that chain was, because it now proves itself to be, what the concept ‘had in mind’” (James 1912, 58). The terminus is not what you think you knew, not the idea you thought you had, not the way you expected to ex- press yourself—it is a movement of thought pulled forth from the relations of tension that make up the passage from prearticulation to the concept to enun- ciation. Expressibility is the terminus of a thought in motion, its incipient direc- tionality: the terminus is rarely where you thought it would be. The terminus is a relational nexus that forces thought to take form. Lodged neither in the human nor in the object, thought propels creativity as the activity of the in-between that makes relation felt, activating the “how” of the event, inciting inquiry, curiosity, play.
The terminus moves the relation bringing prearticulation to the fore. Begin with the interval and admit it into experience. Rethink what counts as art, as practice, as thought, as writing, as politics. The relation is as real as anything else—it is the associated milieu through which all else comes into contact. Re- lation is the incipient activating force through which the work-world nexus emerges.
For Amanda Baggs, relations are immanent. They bring forth responsive environments, activating movements of thought. Degrees of intimacy modu- late the process. In Baggs’s video, there is a tendencial shift between relations of sound and relations of movement. We see this in the passage from the sound-making platforms in the early sequences (such as the computer bag) to the later movement-feeling platforms (such as the knob). These platforms bring to the fore different relays for relation, emphasizing rhythm as the force that underlies the movement of sound. This thinking-in-motion is a technique. In My Language is, finally, a platform for experimenting with techniques of rela- tion that move toward various forms of prearticulation and concept formation.
226	Conclusion