Amanda Baggs’s In My Language is a proposition for conceptual thought. Propo- sitions, in Whitehead, are not rules imposed on a concept from without: they are how feeling becomes conceptual. “If by the decision of the concrescence, the proposition has been admitted into feeling, then the proposition constitutes what the feeling has felt” (Whitehead 1929/1978, 186). Propositions constitute a “source for the origination of feeling which is not tied down to mere datum” (Whitehead 1929/1978, 186). They are the prearticulated force of the feeling making its appearance.
For Whitehead, each occasion of experience is characterized by a flash of novelty. This flash is an appetition, a desire at work. Appetitions propel proposi- tions. Propositions are theories in the making. “The primary function of theories is a lure for feeling, thereby providing immediacy of enjoyment and purpose” (Whitehead 1929/1978, 184).
A proposition is never a judgment. Nor is it necessarily true. It is a terminus-in-action. Focusing appetition on the transitional relation that makes thought felt, propositions cut through the event, shifting the ground. For Ly- gia Clark, a proposition is the capacity for any object to take relational form. “Nothing, in Clark’s propositions, was ever reducible to a concrete body, em- pirical or organic” (Rolnik 2005, 9). Propositions move the concept into ac- tion, this movement always emergent, its creative potential never preestablished. “What I know now is that the body is more than the body” (Clark, qtd. in Rolnik 2005, 9).
Propositions are a lure for feeling. By propulsing the event toward what it can do, they effect the concrescence of an actual occasion. Assembling effects of relation across the nexus of actual occasions, propositions act as the pulling together of the stakes of language in-formation. To become articulate, in these terms, involves expressing what the feeling has felt.
Propositions never attend solely to the datum. In My Language is not “about” autism. It works with the emergence of a language experienced from the en- abling constraints of autism, yet does much more than explicate autism’s rela- tion to language. In My Language proposes the creation of relational objects for
Propositions for Thought in Motion	227