thinking-in-action. It does this not only to make clear how Baggs thinks but to propose this form of expression for a rethinking of a theory of language.
Propositions cannot be relegated to a preformed body or a stand-alone ob- ject. Baggs’s propositions do not tell us what an object can do. Nor do they tell us how to speak. Rather, they create enabling constraints for the opening of a relational process. Placing her objects in specific iterations of the word-world nexus—iterations called forth by the relations themselves—Baggs participates in a becoming-language that makes the passage from thought to articulation felt such that we can participate in its unfolding.
Without transduction, propositions have no force. Transduction is the unity of an event across its different phases, a processual individuation across strata that creates affinities between levels of experience. Propositions provoke trans- ductions that alter what a particular relation can do in a given instance. Not every relational object is evocative in every instance. Each material shape-shifts into different affinities of purpose. Dynamic osmosis, Clark would say (Rolnik 2005).
For Baggs as for Clark, knowing the world means paying attention to its re- verberations, feeling its silent forces, mixing with them, and from this fusion, reinventing the world and yourself, becoming other. From thought to concept to articulation, relational objects transduce prearticulation into the force of lan- guage’s potential to speak the world.
“Being composed of a plurality of irreducible forces, the body is a multiple phenomenon” (Deleuze 1993, 40). Active and reactive forces fight for dominion in the becoming-body. The imposition onto language of a preconstituted no- tion of articulation threatens to make language passive. To denude language of its affective tonality is to suggest that language only makes sense through the syntax of words.
Thought is a force to contend with. Thought moves (with) language, affec- tively altering what language can do. Concepts foreground the capacity to be affected through language. To be affected is to go to the limit of what a thought can do. “The philosopher creates concepts that are neither eternal nor historical but untimely and not of the present . . . untimely at every epoch” (Deleuze 1993, 107). Concepts are activities of relation that take time even as they make time, animated in the process of invention that is the activity of living.
Thinking involves the microperceptions that are the virtual content of the not-yet out of which potential worlds are composed. Thinking exposes the over- lappings of the actual and the virtual, their complex inadequation. Conceptual
228	Conclusion