creation works at this in-between of immanence and actuality where multiplici- ties converge into affirmations. Creativity folds out of thought even as it pro- poses thought to itself. Thought is an untimely proposition.
In My Language feels untimely. It takes us out of the time of language as enun- ciation to the time-pressure of conceptual prearticulation. We feel the force of expression taking form even as we remain unsure of what is actually being said. Amanda Baggs asks for our participation in this becoming-environment of language taking form. As we participate in this process, we feel language as a collaborative event. We experience prearticulation and are gathered in the rela- tionscape this tending-toward language provokes.
Relationscapes are propositions for future thinking. Amanda Baggs activates one such proposition through the notion of a constant conversation: “It is about being in a constant conversation with every aspect of my environment.” A con- stant conversation is an untimely affair: it jumps from plane to plane, virtu- ally participating on the plane of thought and prearticulation, becoming-actual through concept formation, finally emergent on the plane of composition of language’s articulation. This infinite conversation126 is enveloped by the termi- nus not of signification but of responsivity: “Far from being purposeless, the way that I move is an ongoing response to what is around me.” This responsivity creates an active environment, proposing an in-gathering of forces for expres- sion that elicit not standard responses but the novelty of conceptual innovation. “If I [don’t] interact with a much more limited set of responses . . . they judge my existence, awareness, and personhood.” In My Language proposes “a way of thinking in its own right” that is affectively resonant, conceptually complex and inventive in its articulations. It calls forth a relationscape that pairs preaccelera- tion with prearticulation, making felt the force of movement taking form.