relationship between perished actual occasions and the extended continuum, see the conclusion to this book.
8. It is important to note that the prehension chair need not lead simply to an occasion of sitability. The prehension chair can just as well lead from sitability to the dread of classrooms, culminating in an actual occasion whose form is felt as imprisonment or containment.
9. “Strange Horizon” is a chapter in Massumi 2002.
10. Relational movement is the name I’ve given to a form of movement I’ve been ex- ploring that is very influenced by Argentine tango, but also indebted to Aikido and to various methods of improvisation within contemporary dance. Relational movement grew out of Argentine tango’s walking constraint. In social Argentine tango, which is fully improvised, while you never know what kind of movement will emerge, you do know that the movement will never diverge from the basic tenet of the walk: keep- ing one foot on the ground at all times. In the relational movement I practice, which involves face-to-face walking, I use the structure of the walk as an enabling constraint. This constraint allows the movement to remain predictably connected to a face-to-face encounter. This makes clearly felt how relation gives movement its force. Other forms of relational movement would have to design their own enabling constraints to foreground relation. A movement fully unstructured would likely not be capable of creating a sus- tained felt relation.
11. Proprioception is defined as the sensibility proper to the muscles and ligaments. For a more detailed engagement with proprioception, see Massumi 2002.
12. For a detailed exploration of hylomorphism, see the first chapter of Simondon 1995.
13. A phylum is defined as the division of primary rank in the classification of the ani- mal and plant kingdoms. It is through the intermediary of assemblages that the phylum selects, qualifies, and even invents. The assemblages cut the phylum up into distinct, differentiated lineages. Simultaneously, the machinic phylum cuts across them all, taking leave of one to pick up again in another, or making them coexist. In A Thousand Plateaus, Deleuze and Guattari define the machinic phylum as a technological lineage. The phylum classifies machines not simply through their technicity but through their recombina- tions of matter and movement. Their definition: “Wherever we find a constellation of singularities prolongable by certain operations, which converge, and make the operations converge, upon one or several assignable traits of expression. . . . the machinic phylum is a materiality, natural or artificial, and both simultaneously; it is matter in movement, in flux, in variation, matter as a conveyor of singularities and traits of expression. . . . At the limit, there is a single phylogenetic lineage, a single machinic phylum, ideally continu- ous: the flow of matter-movement, the flow of matter in continuous variation, conveying singularities and traits of expression. This operative and expressive flow is as much arti- ficial as natural: it is like the unity of human beings and Nature” (Deleuze and Guattari
Notes to Pages 16–38	231