1987, 409). A machinic phylum creates technical assemblages; the assemblages invent the various phyla. “A technological lineage changes significantly according to whether one draws it upon the phylum or inscribes it in the assemblages; but the two are inseparable” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 407).
14. For a more detailed exploration of how touch necessitates repetition, see Manning 2002.
15. The inframodal suggests that the senses are constantly in a mode of recombination, one single sense never fully responsible for a perception. The inframodal underscores the play between different levels of dominance in sense perception.
16. Deleuze and Guattari define lines of flight as potentials that resist capture. For a more detailed explanation, see Deleuze and Guattari 1987.
17. In Whiteheadian terms, the interval would be similar to an “eternal object.”
18. From a 2003 interview with William Forsythe by Ozaki Tetsuya. http://www
.realtokyo.co.jp/english/column/ozakiinterview.htm, 1.
19. The political is never more or less than that the body-worlds we create and that create us. The potential of the political must remain in the interval—preaccelerated and poised.
20. From a 2003 interview with William Forsythe by Ozaki Tetsuya. http://www
.realtokyo.co.jp/english/column/ozakiinterview.htm, 2.
21. Jacques Derrida’s concept of “originary technicity” (like the concept of the “posthu- man”) invites us to think the body as always-already prosthetic. For a detailed exploration of the concept of originary technicity, see Bennington 2000.
22. See chapter 4 for a more detailed exploration of technogenesis.
23. For more on radical empiricism, see James 1912.
24. In dance, a figure often refers to a series of steps that can be learned and repeated. Figure here conveys something quite different, associated with how shape transiently emerges from movement moving. The shape is what moves through the movement, not what the movement “arrives” at.
25. For Whitehead, the process of an actual occasion moves from prehension to subjec- tive form to perishing, indicating that the microeventness of an occasion must always be replaced by a new occasion. The subjective form refers to the instance in an occasion where the occasion’s taking-form has reached its full potential.
26. Pure experience is always associated with the ontogenetics of relation in James. He writes: “The relation itself is a part of pure experience; one if its ‘terms’ becomes the subject or bearer of the knowledge, the knower, the other becomes the object known” (James 1912, 4).
232	Notes to Pages 44–51