singular and creative, here and now, real yet nonconcrete, actual yet non-effectuated— that is why abstract machines are dated and named. . . . Not that they refer to people or to effectuating moments; on the contrary, it is the names and dates that refer to the singu- larities of the machines, and to what they effectuate” (1987, 510–511).
73. Marta Braun writes that “by 1882, Marey had succeeded in making the camera into a scientific instrument that rivalled his graphing instruments in its power to clearly express change over time. . . . He captured ongoing phases of movement and spread them over the photographic plate in an undulating pattern of overlapping segments. . . . Marey’s last investigations into movement were done with a cinema camera, an instrument he invented (seven years before the advent of commercial motion pictures) to overcome the limitations of his photographic method” (1992, xviii).
74. To catch the seagulls in flight, Marey would have preferred to adopt a photographic technique like that used by Muybridge in his “moving” stills of horses. His preference would have been to use three chronophotographic cameras synchronically with elec- tromagnetic releases, one of them at 15 meters to catch the flight from above. But Marey only had one camera. Forced to create a technique with limited means, Marey positioned his camera at 14 meters (attached to tall conifers) and shot the flight from above (as he would with the walk later). The soil had been covered in black velvet. Then he shot a se- ries obliquely and one from the side, always at 50 images per second (Mannoni 2004, 29). Still, he was disappointed not to have been able to create the synchronicity he admired in Muybridge’s work: “Since the insufficiency of our installation did not permit us to si- multaneously gather three kinds of chronophotographies, we must not expect a perfect concordance between the three images” (Marey, qtd. in Mannoni 2004, 29).
Marey’s images are thrilling in their polyrhythmicality, much more so than had they perfectly emulated Muybridge’s technique that foregrounds movement’s poses. Duration is felt in Marey’s chronophotographic images, not synchronic cadence. In her book on Marey, Braun is very critical of the popular tendency to associate Muybridge with Marey and to assume that their work is synonymous. She underlines the fact that Muybridge’s use of multiple camera systems does not convey a sense of the space traversed or of time passing. “Each photograph was made by a different camera (in tandem with the moving subject) against the same background as the one before and after it, but from a different vantage point. As a result the subject and the camera seem to move in unison and thus effectively cancel out the sense of movement; the only aspects that change are the gestures of the subject, and any sense of movement must be constructed by the viewer from these gestures, frame by frame” (Braun 1992, 237).
All of Muybridge’s photographic compositions were recompositions: the assembled images were rephotographed and printed. Moreover, as Braun notes, the relationship of the images, in some 40 percent of the plates, is not what Muybridge states it to be. His photo montages were even printed with a disclaimer that warned the viewer that the perfect uniformity of time, speed, and distance was not always obtained (Braun 1992, 238)! Where Marey was creating (animated) movement for perception, Muybridge was creating (cinematic) simulations of displacement.
Notes to Pages 108–137	239