75. Four days after Muybridge’s images appeared in La Nature, Marey wrote the edi- tor (his friend and fellow aeronaut Gaston Tissandier) to ask for Muybridge’s contact information. He writes: “I am filled with admiration for Mr. Muybridge’s instantaneous photographs you published. . . . Could you put me in touch with the author? I would like to ask him to assist in the solution of certain physiological problems, so difficult to resolve by other methods. I was dreaming of a kind of photographic gun, to seize the bird in a pose or, even better, in a series of poses marking the successive phases of the movement of its wings” (Marey, qtd. in Braun 1992, 47). Muybridge responded to Marey by sending him various images (of animals and humans taken with a varying number of cameras— from twelve to thirty).
76. McLaren was also a precursor in sound, working both with electronic sound and with drawing sound. His technique of drawing music is particularly interesting. Taking the 35mm film stock, he began by drawing “a lot of little lines on the sound-track area of the 35mm film. Maybe 50–60 lines for every musical note. The number of strokes to the inch controls the pitch of the note: the more, the higher the pitch; the fewer, the lower is the pitch. The size of the stroke controls the loudness: a big stroke will go ‘boom’ and a smaller stroke will give a quieter sound. . . . The tone quality, which is the most difficult element to control, is made by the shape of the strokes” (McLaren, qtd. in Richard 1982, 40). With sound as with images, McLaren’s purpose was not to mimic sounds as they exist in the world, but to create “new sounds which cannot be obtained by any other means. It is the creation of ‘symphonies of burps and rude noises’” (qtd. in Richard 1982, 41).
77. See Gil 2006. A version of the manuscript is published in Portuguese under the title
Movimento Total: O Corpo ea Danca (Lisbon: Relógio d´Água, 2001).
78. This is not a Heideggerian thrownness. It is a becoming-with-movement that em- phasizes how a body co-arises with its worlding.
79. Despite this emphasis on series in Olympia, it is uncanny how composed each of the shots is on its own. To create such successful series both within and across shots, it may be necessary to live up to Riefenstahl’s standards of perfection.
80. For a detailed analysis of the synesthetic biogram, see Massumi 2002.
81. This is precisely Bergson’s critique of cinema, one that Deleuze turns on its head (through Bergson) in his cinema books. Deleuze shows that Bergson’s theory of dura- tion can be used to make felt the virtual movement at work in the cinematic interval. See Deleuze 1986 and 1989.
82. For a more detailed analysis of commanding form, see Langer 1953.
83. For a more detailed exploration of contemporary affective politics and the politics of preemption, see Brian Massumi, “Potential Politics and the Primacy of Preemption,” Theory & Event 10, no. 2 (2007).
240	Notes to Pages 148–160