actualized. Dreamings are sites of negotiation rather than entities. As with the sand drawings, the creation of stories demands a continual erasure. To create is to start again. A member of the Warlpiri at Lajamanu states: “Our Law is not written. It is firm, like a rock, a becoming trace, like the sea that rises, that ebbs and flows” (qtd. in Glowczewski 2004, 302).
94. For an engaging exploration of affect and sensation in Aboriginal painting, see Bid- dle 2007. On the relation between perception and experience in contemporary central desert Aboriginal art, she writes: “Breast, Bodies, Canvas argues that to encounter Central Desert art is to encounter Aboriginal Culture as lived reality. This is an encounter which, given the size, force and effects of contemporary Desert artworks, cannot be ignored. These paintings are understood to be crucial performances of otherwise endangered cultural sentiments. They evoke in the viewer sensations and sensibilities that must be felt as well as thought” (Biddle 2007, 11). These are capitalized in the quote and tend to be capitalized in Aboriginal writings.
95. These paintings are entitled Warlugulong (1976, with Tim Leura), Warlugulong
(1977), Kerrinyarra (1977), Mount Denison Country (1978), and Yuutjutiyungu (1979).
96. Michael Jagamara Nelson states: “Without the story, the painting is nothing” (qtd. in Johnson 1997, 133). This notion of story has been quite difficult for ethnographers, cura- tors, and consumers of Aboriginal dot painting to understand. Johnson writes: “The ‘cor- rect’ ascription for a particular design element in a painting is in fact not always so readily determined—not even by the artist himself ” (1997, 134). The imposition of truth misses the point of the Dreaming. The stories themselves must be told correctly, but how they are performed varies greatly. A story told by the wrong person is unauthorized, a concept far more important than the “inauthentic.” Copying or standard forms of authorship are not the issue. What is at stake is working out the correct relation between the Kirda and the Kurdungurlu as well as being able to recount the stories by singing their trajectories: most paintings are sung even while they are being created. To criticize a painting on aes- thetic grounds is to criticize the artist’s Dreaming—the artist’s very becoming.
97. Dreamings can fall into misuse due to the death of a Kirda, or they can re-manifest themselves in a dream. Dreams, shared in performative rituals with the members of a community, can re-become Dreamings this way, creating geographies that re-stratify in time, bringing to life new lines of flight.
98. Topology refers to mostly non-Euclidean geometry where figures are subjected to deformations so drastic that all their metric and projective properties are lost, creating an elliptical geometry that challenges the very notion of stable form (Courant and Rob- bins 1996, 235).
99. The idea of the one and the many comes from Whitehead 1929/1978, 26.
100. Jennifer Biddle also makes this point in her interesting article “Country, Skin, Can- vas: The Intercorporeal Art of Kathleen Petyarre.” She writes: “The potency of Petyarre’s
242	Notes to Pages 167–171