work arises, arguably, from the very materiality of marks made in the Central and West- ern Desert context. It is not what these marks represent but how they are made that is determinative. To stay within the Peircean framework, these marks are not so much ‘icons’ (signs that look like what they represent) as they are ‘indexes’ (signs that remain existentially tied to what they ‘represent’). Central and Western Desert marks are ‘in- dexes’ in so far as they embody original ancestral potency. This potency does not simply arise. It must be enacted by precise repetitious and regulatory operations—what might otherwise be called Law” (Biddle 2003, 64).
101. The Möbius strip is topological.
102. Brian Massumi writes: “The folding of the Euclidean and non-Euclidean into and out of each other is itself understandable only in topological terms. This hinge-dimension between quantitative and qualitative space is itself a topological figure—to the second degree, since topology already figures in it. It is a topological hyperfigure. The non- Euclidean, qualitative, and dynamic is more encompassing than the Euclidean, quantita- tive, and static, by virtue of this double featuring” (2002, 184).
103. I am not saying the Dreamings themselves walk away. To understand the landscape of the Dreamings as topological, it must first be clear that we are not talking about points on a grid. Uluru remains Uluru. What changes is the intensive movement of the relation- scape. By intensive movement I mean the relational network between Uluru-as-event and its condensation in space-time. To say that Uluru is stable is to suggest that space is there to be encountered (and left behind). The point of Aboriginal land claims is that space-time is alive.
104. As mentioned before, she refers not to particular sites or Dreamings as such. Her expression is that what she paints is a “whole lot.”
105. With regards to the role batik plays in the art of painters from Utopia, see Biddle 2003. She writes that batik taught these women to “conceptualize in advance the space left over from any mark; that is, to conceptualize the trace itself first, for what is marked first with wax comes out, after the fabric is dyed, as unmarked” (2003, 67). Biddle develops an analysis of the workings of the trace based on this idea of marking, suggesting that marks are “made in not on a surface” and therefore neither secondary nor ancillary. The trace, Biddle argues, “is what reactivates ancestral presencing” (2003, 67).
106. Kngwarreye’s paintings are often recognizable by the patterns she creates on the folded-over edges of the canvas.
107. The intensity of painting, of dancing the line, seems to take a toll on her health and energy. There are many instances when Kngwarreye was on the verge of stopping to paint. In line with the beliefs of her peoples, she believed it was time for the younger generation to take over. She felt that her position as a prominent money-maker and as an elder was at odds with some aspects of her tradition.
Notes to Pages 108–199	243