The displacement is not the event. The event is the composition of space-time that qualitatively alters the topological dimensions of our sensing bodies in movement. In Bergson’s words: “We attribute to the motion the divisibility of the space which it traverses, forgetting that it is quite possible to divide an ob- ject, but not an act: and on the other hand we accustom ourselves to projecting this act itself into space, to applying it to the whole of the line which the moving body traverses, in a word, to solidifying” (2002, 65). In preacceleration there is never simply one movement: different rhythms, different durations coexist. The displacement is how the decision to move one way or another takes form. Move- ment is a process of individuation where matter and form remain in flux, virtu- ally shape-shifting into malleable environments. These environments—alive in the interval—are always singular, but never one.
The time of the interval is incipiency. This is a future-past that is prolonged at the interface of the becoming-actual of the virtual. Just because you cannot see the interval does not mean it’s not real. The interval’s concreteness is what allows me to feel the movement in the before or the even-as of my body’s displacement. I can’t think fast enough to catch the interval in the making. The interval is the pro- duction of movement before we know it as such. It is the residual we tap into in a quick change of direction that causes her leg to fly into the air, magically circling her already recomposing body. The interval is salient throughout, but I cannot name it or locate it exactly. I feel it only momentarily in the instant where I catch a glimpse of her eyes wide with wonder asking herself, “How did I do that?”
William Forsythe’s technologies of improvisation are a rich lexicon for the interval. Forsythe explores movement as both extensive and intensive space. His interest in what a body can do takes the movement-space of the body and extends it as far as the body can reach. He pushes the limit of extension, explor- ing how space is created through the infinite lines of flight of expansive bodies.16 In a space-time of continuous reorientation, not only do bodies metamorphose, but so does the space created by the incessant reorientation of the malleable co- ordinates of stagecraft. Space and body are in continuous shifting dialogue.
The relational body is populated by virtual intervals. Yet these shifting inter- vals are also always in a potential state of disappearance. They are like spirals of preacceleration poised to be tapped. Movement revels in the potential of the interval precisely because it contains the magic of forgetting that assures that every movement will begin anew, despite and because of the endless potential of its preaccelerated state. For preacceleration cannot be known as such. It is felt in its effects. It colors the way the movement becomes. But it can’t be repeated in
Incipient Action	19