exactly the same way. Preacceleration is the expression of movement’s capacity for invention.
Preacceleration does not predict one displacement over another. It holds in abeyance openings, out of which shapes emerge, but control is not of the essence. Movement always begins with a certain degree of open improvisation mixed with a certain degree of habit. Every step we take when we walk is a re- playing of a habit. This habit is a tendency to move to a certain rhythm, to take a certain size step, to bend at the hip or at the knee. These habits hold our walk to a practiced repetition: a choreography of sorts. Yet each of these habits takes its shape from a preacceleration that proposes openings toward different shades of movement. These shades of movement are likely more visible in the walk of the dancer than in everyday movement, but even the everyday walk is an improvisa- tion before it is a choreography.
When we are speaking of movement, we must remember: the virtual and the actual are aspects of the same event (there is no actual without the virtual, and vice versa). What takes form as we move is the actualization of virtual potential rich in each displacement. The eventness of movement is a virtually concret- ized differentiation of matter-form that creates a dynamics that is of the order of speed itself. “You can . . . move with tremendous acceleration provided you know where you leave the movement—not where you put the movement, but where you leave it. You try to divest your body of movement, as opposed to thinking that you are producing movement” (Forsythe 1995, 1). Speed is preac- celeration virtually prolonged, always already evading actualization. Absolute speed: magnitude of acceleration, qualitative transformation. When speed actu- alizes (quantifies), it slows down. Divesting movement of displacement, preac- celeration becomes palpable. Evaporation, exfoliation, dissolution. “Movement is a factor of the fact that you are actually evaporating” (Forsythe 1995, 1).
We never evaporate alone. To posit this is to succumb to what Whitehead calls “the fallacy of misplaced concreteness” (1938, 18). The concrete must re- main potentially virtual: its process of relationality must never be completed. The interval is a way of conceptualizing the concreteness of movement where the concrete remains relational and the movement remains virtual.