occasion. In the case of the two dancers, the actual occasion will not be the fact of the displacement as such but the act of it. How the movement is prehended is a unique experience. The singularity of prehension serves to remind us that there is not one common interval but an infinity of relational intervals that to- gether create space-time as we experience it. Like prehensions, actual entities are multiple, operating on a nexus. Each series—of a walk, of a dance—is com- posed of a nexus of differentiated prehensions recomposed into actual occa- sions. Each of these actual occasions operates in a specific space-time on a nexus that shape-shifts in the recomposing space-time of sensing bodies in movement. The interval operates in the multidimensionality of the nexus, becoming with a region of vague and material essences. These essences, defined by Edmund Hus- serl as “anexact yet rigorous,” are neither metric nor fixed. The interval that is prehended remains incorporeal, yet inextricably connected to the corporeal, re- sulting in what Deleuze and Guattari call “an ambulant coupling, events-affects, which constitutes the vague corporeal essence and is distinct from the second- ary linkage, ‘fixed essence-properties of the thing deriving from the essence’” (1987, 409).
The interval belongs to a certain qualifying vocabulary such as that expressed through Whitehead’s “eternal objects.” The interval is not a thing but a quality of light, speed, closeness, purpleness. In Whiteheadian terms, this means that the interval preexists all actual occasions, composing them but not perishing along with them (when they have become “satisfied”). While a prehension may create an actual occasion that in time will have served its purpose and disappear, the interval that incites that actual event to shape-shift will remain potentially active for the next preacceleration. The interval is eternal.17
If we had to locate creativity, the interval could serve as its nexus. I cannot show you how to move my movement, but I can show you how to potentialize the interval to help extend your movement to its qualitative limit. This is what Forsythe means when he says that he must work with the dancers to help them find their movement. To find movement is to work with preacceleration. This just-before is also a way to think duration rather than succumbing to linear time. It is not that I will know the movement in a potential future, but that I will invent the now in a time-slip I will come to know as the just-before. This just-before will never be about an individual movement, but about the relation between preacceleration and motion, between an infinity of intervals apprehended in the not-yet of our quantitative displacement. “When you’re actually dancing, it is seldom that the principles occur in isolation” (Forsythe 2003, 18).
Incipient Action	21