Novelty is produced by the body-becoming. Novelty is dynamic, active through the plasticity of its rhythms, emergent always in excess of its form. “You make a voluntary decision, and you let yourself move into space and then grav- ity and velocity and several other factors are going to affect that decision and force you into another one” (Forsythe 2003a, 24). The interval cannot be shaped as such. It creates a folding into which bodies capitulate, an opening into which we surge. Bodies become many-timed, many-spaced: “Then your body would take over and dance at that point where you had no more idea. I see that as an idealized form of dancing: just not knowing and letting the body dance you around” (Forsythe 2003, 26).
Whitehead writes: “Every actual entity is what it is, and is with its definite status in the universe, determined by its internal relations [its interval] to other actual entities. Change is the description of the adventure of eternal objects in the evolving universe of actual things” (1938, 59). The dance floor moves the dancers. The ground shifts, and through its shifting, bodies recompose. The actual occasions created through the relational event of movement taking shape form a nexus of degrees of relevance, where every actual occasion is in some way present in every other actual occasion. This despite the fact that each in- terval is singular, coloring the particular actual occasion with a qualifier that distinguishes it from the plethora of other actual occasions. We may thus pre- hend the whole (the nexus—the dance as such) or a singularity (one particular movement). When the singularity surprises us the interval will come to light: a moment of magic! Total exfoliation: laughter. We feel the interval’s eternality: there will always have been more than one. The eternality of the interval carries an infinity of potential preaccelerations, an infinite subrealm of experience and expression. When movement makes us laugh (or cry), this laughter captures a singular interval, activating its relevance above the nexus. We feel the movement moving us.