increased by one” (Whitehead 1929/1978, 21). The potential of a configuration is its evanescence: the ways it will have become. This evanescence can be heard in Whitehead’s concept of concrescence, which is the way he combines togeth- erness and the production of novelty. The potential of a configuration must al- ways be the production of novelty. This production will always be based on a togetherness where the interval will guide and extend/extrude the process. This togetherness is the relationality out of which all consequent (and simultaneous) intervals are produced. Concrescence is, literally, growing together.
“You don’t start dancing. You dance.”18 We dance our way to concrescence. Concrescence can be a political moment: the interval we are dancing is always more than the qualified “we.” This “we” transfers any thought of subjectivity be- yond the individual not simply to individuation but also to infra-individuation, to a thought of the collective that does not emerge from a group of individuals but precedes the very concept of individuality. To locate the many in the one and add one is to suggest that every movement is first and foremost collective: collective and singular. It is collective in the sense that it is relational, that it has a profound effect on the composition of its intensive extensions. These intensities become movements of thought, where thought is never distinct from the move- ment itself. Movements of thought are potential articulations of the political. Such articulations propose that we are never alone in the world: movements of thought are worldings that recombine the potential for collective thought.
Felix Guattari proposes a composed matrix of subjectivity that resists a re- turn to the realm of the unconscious to enhance its recombinations. Guattari’s concept of subjectivity depends on an active and dynamic recombination of the virtual and the actual. Subjectivity is no longer exclusively located in a body: it is a collective moving-through. Remapped onto the vocabulary of the inter- val, we might see subjectivity as a provocation that effects the recomposing of bodies-in-the-making, creating not fixed subjects but infra-individuations.
Guattari sees this process of subjectivization as parallel to worlding, con- tinuously reactualized through events of the present passing. This produc- tive consciousness depends on machines of combination such as the series individual-group-machine-world. This series is always already collective in the sense of its operating at vectors of relation and exchange. Subjectivity as Guattari proposes is a kind of heteropoiesis, a self-production in which the myriad com- ponents (prosthetic-organic) participate in the production and transformation of one another. Subjectivity “makes itself collective” (Guattari 1995, 22). This does not mean that subjectivity as inherently collective is already political19  or
Incipient Action	23