moves with us, our collective steps sounding like a beating of a marked continu- ity. Boccioni’s continuity in space. And yet these movements are improvised. Continuity in space becomes continuous discontinuity. The interval is always more than one, beyond the actual occasion.
To repeat is to act, to live the interval. Repetition is forgetting (in the Nietz- schean sense): preacceleration not to find a previously lost displacement but to encounter the potential of what is not-yet. On the dance floor I lose my place when I repeat to remember. The music dulls, the interval dissolves, and I am no longer dancing with you. Now everything has become a question of displace- ment: the flow of dance falls apart. Important: we cannot dance together alone. Repetition must remember relation while it actively forgets past combinations. Relation must be reinvented. To dance relationally is not to represent movement but to create it.
To create movement for the sake of movement, Merce Cunningham adopts randomness as a choreographic method and decomposes sequences of move- ment by multiplying traditional articulations (Gil 2002, 118). Randomness be- comes a way of awakening the interval, thereby shifting the focus from the body as subject to the production of movement itself. This production of movement potentially becomes a recomposition of the body not as subject but as collec- tive infra-individuation. The goal is to “break the patterns of personal remem- bered physical coordinations” (Cunningham 1951, 59). Movement is no longer asked to express something outside it: movement becomes its own artwork (oeuvre).
When the body becomes a mobile form-force rather than a stable axis, any- thing is possible. Cunningham, and later Forsythe, seek not to capture the form- force of the body but to prolong the interval that emanates from this form-force to disarticulate what we too often have come to define as movement. The goal is not to displace but to create, to qualitatively change the composition (of the bodies, of space-time). This recombination is an active process that configures an event. Multiplicities are created that take the form of re-potentialized limbs reaching-toward what would seem to be the body’s outside, but will become the re-centering of that body’s reconfiguring. In Forsythe’s vocabulary: transport the line, curve the motion, reorient and follow until your movement reaches a point where it can no longer develop. Capture the intensity! Redirect it, or let it go. Field residual movement. Prolong it! Extrude it! Fold it! Feel how it populates the interval. Use torsion to reclaim this residual movement, create a multiplicity. Play with what’s left over, share it.
Incipient Action	27