Concrescence—growing together—signals the potential of such politics: the world as dancing room.
Simultaneous movement implies a transgression of duration: movement not only creating space-time but recomposing the virtual. Preacceleration—inten- sive movement—keeps the virtual active, poised: a political preemption of the not-yet? All gestures extend beyond what we can perceive into the non-existence of their virtuality. These residues of movement are not lost or stored. They are active: actively virtual. “Organic, yes, but out of the multiplicity of organic vir- tual bodies that constitute one same body there merges an impossible body, a sort of monstrous body: this is the virtual body. This body prolongs gesture into virtuality, since what follows from gesture can no longer be perceived by an empirical, actual body” (Gil 2002, 123). Politics as radical empiricism.23 As we move our body, we move not only with the force-form that seems palpable—the interval we create—but also with the multiplicity of virtual bodies that recom- pose along the plane of immanence of our sensing bodies in movement. “The unit of virtual movement (or the virtual unity of movement) creates a space where ‘everything fits,’ a space of coexistence and of consistency of heteroge- neous series” (Gil 2002, 123).
What Gil calls the plane of immanence is the interval. It populates the dance and makes tangible, through dance, how movement operates. It underscores the fact that movement is never displacement. Movement is incipient action: a dance of the not-yet. “To dance is to create immanence through movement: this is why there is no meaning outside of the plane nor outside of the actions of the dancer. . . . The meaning of movement is the very movement of meaning” (Gil 2002, 125).
To move the interval rather than “the body” is to create space-time for politics, to open the concept of the empirical to movement, to begin to express the infra- modality of the sensing body in movement. The plane of immanence is fragile, yet persistent. We can try to do away with the interval, but it always returns. Political philosophy has not made space for the interval within the vocabulary of the rational modern subject, yet the interval has nonetheless leaked into the complex iterations of pure plastic rhythm’s political becomings. In dance, the interval has never absented itself, but has recently become more visible, more palpable, through movement’s enhancement with new digital technologies. Ur- gently: let us move the relation. But let us not devise for it a presence that denies its virtuality, the micropolitical potential of its in-betweenness.