part of the experience of getting ahead. Ours is a walk where the interval takes on consistency. The falling-to-walk of the frustrated toddler is transformed into a sustained reaching-toward. This reaching-toward is a walking that feels like a horizontal force rather than a taking of steps, where a change of direction signals not an immanent fall but the potential to invent.
In an intimate embrace, our relational walk moves counterclockwise around the dance floor, our bodies beginning to take on the rhythm of the intervals our movement is creating. These intervals—fed by the preacceleration that is the feeling of movement-to-come—are the virtual nodes through which each initi- ated movement becomes the invitation of a step. In the interval, the direction we’ve chosen gains a texture that encourages the step to fold through move- ment moving. The complexity of relation translates displacements into open prearticulations. We preaccelerate to prearticulate. Displacement is hardly felt as such. When our bodies begin to fold around the interval, we know we are creating a dance.
Relational movement is always improvisational. For sustained improvisa- tion, constraint is essential. Without the rules of walking, we could invent infinitely, but this infinity would likely be chaotic. In the chaos, the tightness of relational movement’s interval would likely be dispersed. What the con- straint of the walk allows is a particular texture of a shared interval. Without the interval, the very real possibility emerges that we would walk on each other’s feet and lose the connection. To displace another body rather than moving the relation is to move-to rather than with. The essence of relational movement is the creation of a virtual node, an in-between that propels the dance, that in-forms the grace that is not strictly of the body but of the move- ment itself.
As I walk with her, the constraint of the walk holds me to a certain pattern. We create out of this pattern, asking of the interval that it fold the movement toward displacements-to-come. This folding is the transduction of a step into the reaching-toward of a directionality out of which another relational move- ment will be produced.
She feels the preacceleration of my movement even before I move, respond- ing by taking a step back around me, across the front of my body. As she steps across, the velocity of a spiral feeds the becoming-movement such that we par- ticipate in a centrifugal force. With her body in my arms, moving across yet still in front, I take a small step forward, which completes the incipient spiral. This spiral is intensive—it does not move away, it moves-with. Moving-with, our
32	Chapter 2