relation moves not a person but the elasticity of relation. We move-with the to- getherness of a curving that fields metastable equilibriums. This does not mean that we never lose our balance. It means that balance can no longer be thought as something to be lost or gained: there is no stable axis around which I lead her for us to “lose.” We curve together, creating a folding interval out of which pure plastic rhythms begin to take form.
Folding undoes the finality of form. Form becomes a folding-into, a force-toward that is a threshold, a becoming-spiral, a becoming-turn, a becoming-triangle. These are forms-in-the-making, resonant only in relation to the movements they give rise to. Emergent forms are more than steps. They are porous steps—porous because unidentifiable as such (“What was that!” she will ask as the movement completes itself), yet felt. You will know that some- thing happened, that your body became something, but the “what” of the step will rarely reveal itself as such.
It is not simply the speed of the movement that keeps form from holding to a step. It is incipient movement’s wave, of which the elastic is the emergent force. As the wave forms, we feel an interval creating itself. Through the interval, we feel the elasticity, the becoming-form of a relational movement. This is a micro- perception, active only in transition, at the cusp of the actual. As the elasticity compresses, the impetus for becoming-form is infinite. But if we lose it by allow- ing its intensity to disperse, or if we want to hold onto it for too long, the elastic point of the movement will evaporate and only the step will be felt.
The labyrinths of folds virtually active in the interval are becoming-bodies of movement. They are not steps, nor can they be translated as such. They are potential directions, potential elasticities, potential preaccelerations. Separating them out is impossible. Their indivisibility is what gives the interval its inten- sity. Intensive movement is always populated by such microperceptions. When we move the relation, we are creating and harnessing microperceptions that express themselves (virtually) in every movement. It is not that they preexist the movement, or that they can be called forth as such. They are the potential that is felt in the incipiency of the action, the potential that transduces mat- ter into form. Mattering-form is movement not as identifiable figuration but as intensive figure.24 Figure as force taking form, as movement-with that shapes bodies-in-the-making.
An intensive figure does not represent. It durationally evokes. It provokes and propels. A figure is active transience from one form to another, a molecular, mattering-form that transduces. Referring to Cézanne’s theory that the figure
34	Chapter 2