produces sensation, Deleuze writes: “The figure is the sensible form related to a sensation; it acts immediately on the nervous system, which is of the flesh” (2003, 31). Sensation is what is produced, but not a sensation of, a sensing-with and toward. Moving relationally we sense not the step per se (though we do step it, otherwise we would not walk)—we sense the intensity of an opening, the gathering up of forces toward the creation of space-times of experience into which we move. As the movement begins to fold into another movement, we feel its elasticity, opening the movement’s shape to its inevitable deformation.
Deformation—topological becoming—gives relational movement its rhythm. The sensation of moving the relation is rhythmic, a topological transformation that folds to infinity. The sensation is multiple, but not multiplied. It works on many levels at once—macro- and microperceptual—operating on planes rather than in divided sequences. These planes of sensation are amorphous—they never produce a recognized feeling that can be repeated in the same way. They are felt not in their form but in their effects. Sensation is accumulated, it morphs and coagulates and disperses, always operative between levels. Sensation is in and of movement.
The in and of movement folds. Elastic, we feel the becoming-form of move- ment’s shape. In the amodal tactility of elasticity, force is stored and then re- leased. Elasticity acts on the movement. The release liberates the figure, not a figure that was there all along, but a figure that is virtually creating itself in the interval. Almost-virtual.
The folds of potential movement ingress into the dance. A folding-unfolding as much as an involution-evolution propulses the movement. This movement-with is alive in the associated milieu that is the interval, productive, brimming with sensation. Rhythm, the regenerative force of the associated milieu, is the transducer of sensation, the élan vital that provokes projections of sense into becoming-movement. Without rhythm, becoming-movement tends to divide and become diffuse. For relational movement, intensive rhythmic movement is key— diffusion guarantees confusion. This does not mean that we move to a rhythm. It means we move rhythm—that the very becoming of the movement is rhythmic. Rhythm takes two. Moving the relation is a rhythmic encounter with a shift- ing interval. Rhythm moves us before we know where we are going, even when we momentarily lose our connection. A typical situation: I change my mind suddenly and move not where the pulse of preacceleration was moving the re- lation but where I suddenly decide I want to go. What happens: she hesitantly move not into the space I physically open, but into the opening I preaccelerated
The Elasticity of the Almost	35