preaccelerating toward the next movement, the interval fills up with the poten- tial still languishing in the pastness of the last movement. It is not that the new movement contains the specificity of the past movement—its steps. What the new movement contains are all of the micromovements, the potential elasticities of the past movement. Movemented tendencies. Virtual events.
Inflection is inseparable from infinite variation. There is no elastic point that resides on the curve in the same way each time. The curve creates an elas- tic point as much as the elastic point becomes the curve. The elastic point is a traveling node along a fluctuating line that has no beginning nor end, “envel- oping a world infinitely spongy and cavernous, constituting more than a line and less than a surface” (Deleuze 1988a, 23). This is not a measurable point— its elasticity makes it infinitely malleable. It is a folding point, a curvilinear detour that moves not from point to point but in an infinite circumvolution that becomes the movement itself. The interval created by relational move- ment is the plane of consistency of this circumvolution, elasticity the plane of composition.
The elastic point inflects the curve with an almost. This almost is the slight de- lay, almost imperceptible, that occurs at the interstice of the actual re-becoming virtual. The vortical force of the elasticity shapes the movement such that it becomes fully actual at the same time as it recomposes through microperceptual intensities virtually active in the interval. The elasticity of the almost is a rare instance of an almost-actualization of the microperceptual within the actual. In the elastic moment, the movement becomes more-than, enveloping in its folds all of the potential of its pastness and its futurity. This elastic becoming-actual is thus also a becoming-virtual, an inflection on the curvature of pure experi- ence that demands that its effects be felt. In the elasticity of the almost, what is felt is the rhythmic sensation of the fullness of movement, movement beyond its actualization.
The elastic point is preemptive. It anticipates curvature. In the becoming-curve of movement, elasticity is always operative, but not always felt as such. Often, this elasticity is curtailed—for example, when a change of direction is fallen into, rather than moved into. But when it is felt, it is experienced as though after its occurrence, an “after” that is copresent with its actualization but feels differed because elastics take time. Elasticity is the durational element in the becoming-curve of movement.
In relational movement, elasticity always produces spirals. Whether these spirals are extensive movements or whether they remain intensive, force is
The Elasticity of the Almost	37