Every new interval is the virtual node of that actual occasion. As the elastic- ity of the curvature makes itself felt, we feel the completion of what Whitehead calls the subjective form of the event.25 The actualization of the subjective form marks the almost-perishing of that actual occasion because it satisfies the event. Satisfaction occurs when the event has fulfilled itself and is ready to be back- grounded into the nexus of perished actual occasions.
The event is as much vibration as action. It never fully actualizes, since the actual is always replete with the virtual. The fullness of virtuality within the movement gives it complexity. Without this, the movement would simply be a displacement, a falling into step. The event of movement moving is a quasi-virtual experience: actual because all steps actually take place, virtual be- cause all the microperceptions of pastness and futurity are enveloped in the becoming-movement.
The elasticity of the almost is textured, its texture that of unbounded creativ- ity. The movement’s elastic point produces conjunction, but not conjunction in a one-to-one relation. What is produced is the conjunction of the one-many, of the infinity of potential series coming together. This coming-together is a concrescence. It is a growing together activated through the elastic point, not a coming together of two subjectivities or two movements, but the germ of pure experience—novelty in the making—expressing itself. “No things are ‘together’ except in experience; and no things are, in any sense of ‘are,’ except as compo- nents in experience or as immediacies of process which are occasions in self- creation” (Whitehead 1933, 236).
The elasticity of the almost brings together formed experience and pure ex- perience,26 creating a doubled event that is always either on the verge of actual- ization or revirtualization, at once actual and virtual. The elastic point is pure experience in relational movement. It is an actualized event in the dance, as well as an opening to a virtual suspension. As we stretch the movement (and the movement stretches us), we know that its perishing is near, and yet we flirt with this nearness. At the elastic point we find we can linger, but on its edges the spiral perishes, and we risk falling. Lingering is the pure experience of experi- menting with the almost.