of them divisively. Each of these modes produces the opening for the next mode, and together they constitute an event. This event produces an affective tone that gives rise to the consistency of that particular movement-experience. This affective tone is the concern—in Whiteheadian terms—for the event itself. Leader and follower are no longer individuals expressing their roles in a move- ment of steps: they are co-constituted by the very experience they are relation- ally creating. Concern is not concern for but concern with.
The event created by relational movement is not only concerned with two dancers. An occasion of experience always carries the many in the one. The modes of functioning that make the experience palpable jointly constitute its process of becoming. These modes can never be separated out from the worlding of the event: each event contains the world within it. This means that each movement-event is invested with all of the currents of worldness that have made that singular movement possible. Worldness is the future-past (the intensive background) out of which all movements-with compose. The rela- tionality of relational movement moves the world as much as the world moves through it.
Relations are inseparable from affective tone, or concern. And affective tone is inseparable from the modes that relations create and through which relations move. The becoming-body of dance is the composition of a relation. How this becoming-body does what it can do is its concern. The body in this case is not the individual but the mattering-form that emerges through inflection’s elastic point. In its taking form this becoming-body is always relational, produced in the between of the mobile relation. It is pure plastic rhythm, an intensive body. Modes affect us. In the mode of the interval, for instance, as she and I move together, we may feel the rhythm change, propulsed by a syncopation of the mu- sic that takes hold of the in-gathering of the movement and expresses it as tight or bumpy, taking us suddenly out of a flowing interval and into a new preaccel- erated movement, the elasticity of the almost not quite experienced. More than a shift in our steps, what we experience is an altered affective tone. This colors the rest of the dance. Another instance: someone nudges us from behind, infring- ing on the precarious metastability of our becoming-relation, creating a sud- den displacement that takes over the relation, bringing on frustration and inner tension. Or, as we create an opening toward an extensive movement backward (for her) where her almost-step will transduce into a linear kick, I note with alarm that she is about to kick the wall, leading me to introduce a quick change in direction that shifts our linear energy toward an intensive curving, bringing
The Elasticity of the Almost	41