The relation is always already elastic. Even a simple walk can feel elastic when the movement carries us, when the goal is not the first thing on our mind. The elasticity of the relation is perceptible in its affective margin, in the emergence of the unknowable where what is felt stretches and contracts into a propulsion of experience toward the unfathomable. Every event is in some sense imbued with such virtual curvature. What relational movement can do is make this elasticity felt, actualize it in an almost-form that takes shape in its incipient deformation. Relational movement depends on a fluid assemblage that operates always in the between of constraint and improvisation. Each mode acts both as constraint and opening. “We do not even know of what affections we are capable, nor to the extent of our power,” writes Spinoza. “How could we know this in advance?” (qtd. in Deleuze 1990a, 226). Concern is movement’s capacity to propel experi- ence to its transmutational potential. Modes emerge and shift according to the requirements of the relation, altering the relation and opening it to new modes. Modes in this sense can be thought of as techniques of relation. These tech- niques of relation are operational in the sense that they open the way for relation to be experienced. “While a mode exists, its very essence is open to variation, according to the affections that belong to it at a given moment” (Deleuze 1990a,
225–226).
Techniques of relation produce events. Every event is relational. Events create relation as much as relation creates events. We cannot know in advance what an event can do, any more than we can know what a body can do. Spinoza’s question will remain unanswered: to know of what a body is capable would be to divest a body of its elasticity. The essence of a technique of relation is not its content per se but its capacity to become more-than and to create more-than. “A conatus is indeed a mode’s essence (or degree of power) once the mode has begun to exist. A mode comes to exist when its extensive parts are extrinsically determined to enter into the relation that characterizes the mode; then, and only
42	Chapter 2