Standing still is often associated to posture. “Stand still!” sounds to me like “Stand up straight!” Yet, like “stillness,” posture is elusive. Posture is less a stop- ping of movement than a passing-through. If standing still is a shifting between thousands of micromovements in the making, posture is how its incipient action is felt.
Moshe Feldenkrais defines posture as “dynamic equilibrium.” He suggests that posture is how we move through. Posture is how we carry our movement stilling. This movement stilling is allied to the movements of experiential space-time. We move with the reaching-toward of experience as it moves us.
Posture is not a stopping. It is a stilling of the between of the body’s recon- figurations in extensive and intensive space-time. “Between one displacement and the next there is always a moment when the body is, practically speaking, not changing position significantly” (Feldenkrais 1981, 47). Every shift depends on a moving-through. Posture is the quality of the moving-through. It is not a position, not something to aim for or to attain: it is a movement with movement reconfiguring. For Feldenkrais, the relative immobility of the betweenness of posture is not something associated only with humans. All animals have this quality as part of their movement reconfigurations. Feldenkrais calls it “the spe- cial characteristic of a given body” (1981, 47).
Asking you to stand still is like asking you to become aware of your special characteristic. Why does it feel so punitive? Perhaps because we think we should not move. Because we believe we should have the capacity to stop. But we can’t. And so we move, and we try to hide that moving by ignoring the movement moving. But the more we ignore the movement within stillness, the more we lose our balance. To be balanced is in fact to move with micromovements mov- ing. In Feldenkrais’s terms, it is to become aware of how our special character- istic moves-with our body moving. “All species of animals have a characteristic form of posture, which usually we think of as standing, although dynamically this is the configuration of the body from which any act is made” (Felden- krais 1981, 48). Dynamically speaking, we can still standing. As long as we keep moving through posture. Moving through movement stilling means dancing posture’s small dance.27
A posture is a quality of movement stilling that infects moving. The strange thing about posture is that you can only alter it from within a movement mov- ing. If you try to stop the movement, you don’t get a single posture, you get a multitude of micropostures that move in tandem with the rejigging of micro- movements. Stopping is virtually impossible.
A Mover’s Guide to Standing Still	45