Posture is less a stance than a tendency of momentariness. It is a metastable stilling that leads toward a spinal spiral around which all movement turns. You never reach it once and for all. Posture is a dynamic that is co-constitutive of the body’s tendencies for reconfiguration. That’s why there is no ideal posture: if the tendency of your intensive movement is a fidget or a squirm, the quality of your posture will itself be a squirm in the making. Neither can a posture be an end- point. Beware of those who tell you to improve your posture. They’re probably the same ones who told you to stand still.
Posture is the intensive magnitude of a movement-forming. It is not the in- cipiency of a movement as much as the passing-through toward that incipiency. It is the zero-point of absolute movement, the quasi chaos on the cusp of an incipient change in direction.
When we move, we move around the posture’s quasi-chaotic center. It is quasi-chaotic because it contains in their incipiency all of the tendencies for re- configuration of a movement moving. The most frequent movement for which a standing body prepares itself is a movement around. This turning around the spinal axis will generally revolve around a whole body moving. If the head turns, the shoulders will follow, and then the hips, the knees, the feet. This seemingly organic movement can take many surprising forms. Anywhere along the way, the incipient nextness can be dislodged, and the movement’s equilibrium can be altered. “The preliminary ingredient movements do not usually evoke the final act” (Feldenkrais 1981, 93). The quasi chaos of the movement’s immanent cen- tering is itself a change of equilibrium, an individuating of the becoming-body of the movement.
Part of what keeps movement out of equilibrium is the way it worlds. Every movement is not simply of the body but moves-with the associated milieu of the body-world nexus that enfolds it. Reaching-toward can be a trip as much as it can be a touch. “It is not always at all easy to decide whether a particu- lar movement has originated as an immediate response to a provocation from the environment, or if we ourselves have initiated the stream of motor activity” (Feldenkrais 1981, 139).
Standing still makes felt the incipient force of micromovements reconfigur- ing the body’s stilling. Since we’re not so busy getting somewhere, we can feel our movement moving still. The feeling of losing our balance is amplified by the quietening of the reconfiguration. This is not yet consciousness of a movement. What we experience are virtual forces recombining, microperceptions shifting. Consciousness comes after the fact, when we realize we’ve lost our balance. A
46	Interlude