It is the work of the first chapter to initiate the reader to the reorientation of individuation’s swerve, taking off from Daniel Stern’s rethinking of the psychological self and psychoanalytic subject. The writing in this chapter is already at speed, launching into the invention of new concepts specifically tailored to the reciprocal presupposition of the one and the many in formative belonging to a shared process of becoming, and plotting the conventional notions with which we are in the habit of thinking into their twisting vicinity. The velocity of the writing and the sheer number of new concepts set in motion may prove at times disorienting for the reader, as a result of swerve fatigue. Received assumptions or previously arrived at conclusions the reader inevitably brings to the reading, concerning the individual, insides/outsides, and subjects/objects, are sure to return at moments of conscious or unconscious need for conceptual repose. These moments are part of the process. If they are selectively focused on, however, they will place the reader at a remove from the text, defaulting them, for example, to a posture of critique. At these moments the movement of the text continues while the reader holds to position. This can lead to a disconnect. Just as Manning herself takes the plunge, so too must the reader be prepared to replunge into the current of the writing. The concern of the book is the more-than of any objective or subjective resting place of process that counts as one. It is only fitting that the writing itself perform a more-than of any one concept upon which the reader’s attention might arrest. Like the process it follows, the writing folds into and out of its own iterations. Conceptual variations unfold from each other to stand out for themselves, then fold back together to express their belonging to the same fielding of thought. This gives a rhythm to the writing as an ongoing process of the individuation of a movement of thought. There are refrains and motifs designed to slip a reader who falls out of step back into the rhythm.