The characters in Waltz with Bashir are faces, but faces as flat surfaces, as markers for the force of fabulation, a telling poised at the limit of articulation, a telling, as one character explains, of a past “not in my system.” Fabulation is about the event, the event of time: fabulation is not the telling of a narrative in the form of the “what was,” but the expression of “the act of legending.” This act creates not a truth but an opening onto the aberrant movement of time where the surface of the film itself begins to “fiction,” to “legend” or fabulate, where the character (the surface) begins to “fabulate without ever being fictional” and where the filmmaker cannot but “‘intercede himself ’ from the real characters who wholly replace his own fiction through their own fabulations” (Deleuze 1989, 150; translation modified). What emerges via the face in Waltz with Bashir are stories fabulating themselves, creating themselves in the merging of events that do not constitute a clear continuity, events replete with fantasy and dream, reconstruction and confusion. “Do you recognize this picture?” the filmmaker asks. “No,” the impassive face responds. “Was I always there?” he asks another. “Yes.” The impassivity of the faces of the characters as they relay their selective memories tinged with forgetting invites a moving-across into the texture of memory itself. The telling does not sink into the myth of an attainable past. It moves through events in the making, creating a collective surface for the telling. In the fabulation that ensues, the face resists empathy at any personal, individual level. For the face here is not the locus of human expression. The face is the metaphysical surface through which events pass. The movement of the events of the film bubbles at its impassive surface, inviting us to move across into the collective event that is the imagescape itself. We cannot get inside the faces, so we move across their surfaces into the texture of the becoming-image, the becoming-image of a forgetting that is all but a past uncovered. Shards of meaning coincide, but no ultimate meaning is revealed. Waltz with Bashir is a web of futures in the making more than a depth of remembrance, once and for all. What we see is not the past bubbling to the surface but life itself active in the immanence of the future-arising, a life on the verge of appearance at the very intersection where immanence transcends itself and merges with the actuality of the ineffable.