These are some of the signature concepts of Manning’s original take on process philosophy, as it develops toward Always More Than One from the closely allied earlier volumes, Politics of Touch (2007) and Relationscapes (2009). The qualitative difference of the “how” of an event. The continuum of variation running across iterations of experience. The processual openness of the “what else.” The question of composition of the manner in which codetermining factors are brought together toward a unique mutual inclusion in the event defining the newness of a next iteration: the question of creativity. The impossibility of thinking creativity without factoring in proliferating series of life-forming events and their corresponding spacetimes of experience.
Experience: it is significant that Stern underlines that each of the “thousand variations” on a generic life-event carries a different affect, and that he qualifies the affect as a “vitality” affect. But we must be careful here. The words “experience” and “affect” can easily lead back to the conceptual repose of the subject and interiority. This would be to stencil over the singular-generic with the traditional categorical logic again. Stern is clear: none of the thousand-gettings-out-of-chairs of his first example are subsumable under “a specific category of affect” to which an internal state of a subject would correspond (1985, 56). A vitality affect is not a category of affect, and it is not personal. It’s a uniquely generic life-feeling of activity. Each getting-out-of-a-chair and each sucking-of-a-finger comes with “a burst of determination” (Stern 1985, 56). They are incidents of determination; determining occurrences. However small and everyday they may be, in their determination they are still life-defining events. The feeling they come with defines what life has been like. This feeling of vitality, or vitality affect, is not in the subject, and is not just personal (unless accidents and populations can be considered personal). It is in and of the world. It is in and of the world’s serial ongoing and the contingent surprises met along the way. It is in the way in which the ongoing and the surprise come punctually together to determine a burst of life. Process philosophy is how we burst with life, in and of the world. It’s about our worlding. How the world populates us, and we the world, in a reciprocal presupposition of oneness and manyness determining a richness reaching all the way down to the most furtive suck of the finger and rising all the way back up from there to tinge the most generic and regularized events with a feeling of singularity.