As Ari Folman was creating Waltz with Bashir, microfascisms were playing themselves out in different ways across political constituencies, as they have a tendency to wherever there is a transcendent capture, be it liberal or neoliberal, conservative or neoconservative. At the liberal edge of the spectrum “we” insist on a politics of recognition based on a benevolent responsibility for the other that builds on dichotomies of inclusion/exclusion, perpetrator/victim, and reifies the human in the name of race, identity, gender. Not necessarily fascism but certainly a tending-toward fascism in the name of a universal figure of the human. As Guattari underscores, the universal as a tendency activates forms of microfascism in the name of desire to have the final word on the moral and the immoral, right and wrong, and this tending toward universalizing is with us, always. “Fascism happened and it never ceases happening. It travels through the finest weaves; it is in constant evolution. It seems to come from the outside, but it finds its energy in the heart of each of our desires” (Guattari 1977a, 62; my translation). Fascisms are war machines that fill the holes and gaps of potential, sedimenting the open topological surface of the transcendental field. Fascisms are a strange interplay of rigidity and suppleness—rigid disciplinings that reek of totalitarianism, supple choreographies of surface-cells in the making. Waltz with
Bashir does not protect us from the microfascist edges of politics. Indeed, it takes us again and again to their limit. What Waltz with Bashir does is refuse to know in advance how the consequences of the undeniable horror of the massacre play out, and where the ongoing fascisms of politics in the making are located. In so doing, it makes felt how fascisms never reign simply on the macropolitical surface of experience—they crawl between, across strata of experience, resurging in forms and forces less obvious than those in the macropolitical realm but no less insidious.