The coda returns to the political and ethical question as it concerns speciation in a different connection. The context is one that might pass as more “natural” as regards the issue of the more than human of the more than one. The individuals between which the event of speciation passes are assignable as two different species in the traditional sense of the word (as categories of being defined by divergent sets of inherent properties). There is a bonobo and a human, in encounter. The danger of transcendental error is extreme here, precisely because the traditional logic would seem so logically called upon for service. Manning’s account of a singular event passing between a bonobo and a human moves the discussion of the more than human onto the kind of territory normally staked out by current discourses of the “nonhuman.” The very term “nonhuman,” which cannot but reverberate with categorical thinking, marks the difference in approach. Manning’s approach here makes much of the fact that the coming-together between the individuals in encounter is oddly triangulated by the question of what constitutes not a human or a bonobo but, surprisingly, a gorilla. The singular-generic field that enters into the constitution is already inhabited by the manyness of the more than one or two. The vitality affect that eventuates is not one-or-the-other of the two, but an unexpected thirdness of both-and bursting with gorilla-like determination. This is because oneand-the-other are not subsumable under their categorical species without remainder. The bonobo is not reducible to the figure of “the” bonobo. In the constitution of his life are factors that from the traditional logic would be considered mere contingencies: domestication, an apprenticeship with language. In Kanzi’s oneness is already a unique manyness. He is a variation on bonoboing. If you wanted to hold to the traditional logic, you would have to say he was a subspecies. But even this would not be enough to grasp “what” he is. He is utterly singular-generic: “a” life serially determined by events. As is the human, Dawn Prince, on the other side of the fence.