A mobile architecture is one way of naming the event of choreography’s self-generative force. It is what can be felt when the choreographed event generates a more-than that touches on its propositional nature. A mobile architecture is the direct experience of the more-than in its field effect. It is “what makes a work stand on its own”—what makes a work work. Deleuze and Guattari write: The artist creates blocs of percepts and affects, but the only law of creation is that the compound must stand on its own [doit tenir tout seul ]. The artist’s greatest difficulty is to make it stand up on its own. Sometimes this requires what is, from the viewpoint of an implicit model, from the viewpoint of lived perceptions and affections, great geometrical improbability, physical imperfection, and organic abnormality. But these sublime errors accede to the necessity of art if they are internal means of standing up (or sitting or lying). . . . On the other hand, many works that claim to be art do not stand up for an instant. Standing up alone does not mean having a top and a bottom or being upright (for even houses are drunk and askew); it is only the act by which the compound of created sensations is preserved in itself—a monument, but one that may be contained in a few marks or a few lines, like a poem by Emily Dickinson. (1994, 164–65; translation modified)
The question of what makes a work work, it seems to me, is the question of how an artwork evolves to exceed its form, to create from its force-ofform a more-than that can be felt, if not easily described. With the concept of mobile architecture, I am suggesting that a choreographic work “stands up” when human movement evolves to include its associated milieu such that the milieu’s ecologies of relation themselves can be felt. This happens when the choreographic begins to shift toward a wider fielding of movement where spacetime itself begins to vibrate with movement expression. From choreographic stagecraft there evolves a sensation that the dancing is happening with and across bodies rather than on them. Bodies dance in an ecology of movement expression that in turn dances them.