Choreography becomes a field for movement expression when the body becomes an intensive participant with the evolving milieu rather than simply the instigator of the action. This occurs when the choreographic begins to make felt the coming-into-eventness of the field of relation, which happens when the bodies begin to move the relation, dancing in concert with movement-moving, with space-timing. When the field of relation itself becomes mobile, what begins to erupt from its intensive spatialization of time is an architecting of mobility, a mobile architecture that does not stabilize form but extracts from form the intensive traces of its reemergence as field effect. A mobile architecture is less a structure than an agile surfacing that makes felt the force of incipient form: it is, as Deleuze and Guattari might say, a bloc of movement sensation—when you experience it you can’t quite say where it began or ended, but you can recognize it as a rare example of a work outdoing itself. The work continues to move you beyond its staged iteration—you can’t say exactly why but it haunts you, it occupies you, evolving beyond its form-taking to create resonances that incite you to want to experience it again. It’s not the form of the work that stays with you, it’s the how of its capacity to dislodge the you that you thought you were. It’s the how of the work’s capacity to shift the ground that moves you, from technique to technicity. Mobile architectures are one way of addressing what choreography can do when this shift occurs. I call them architectures only because there is a sense that something fleetingly collective has taken form, almost a structure but not quite. Or: that there has been a collective orchestration for a certain kind of constructing. The paradox of mobile architectures: the work works when the constructing is felt not as a form in itself, but as the force of form—when the form or the structure is always already destructuring.
Mobile architectures have the potential to surface in an infinity of ways across various movement practices, yet they are rare to behold. This chapter suggests that One Flat Thing, reproduced (2000) is one such instance. The strength of the Synchronous Objects platform, it seems to me, is that through its foregrounding of the cueing/aligning/counterpoint in One Flat Thing, reproduced, it makes visible how the “what else” of the choreographic can unfold, making felt the way movement moves across multiphased surfacings of experience to create a mobile architecture in the making.