Here I want to suggest that despite calls made toward open-endedness and process (understood as positive effects of a generative event) the call to touch is never straightforward. For it is a call, and like all calls it asks that it be listened to in certain ways, that it elicit behavior considered manageable under the conditions of the work. This is the risk any artist takes: that the call to touch will expose itself as an all-or-nothing proposition, that the participant will feel burdened by the event rather than excited by it, that instead of setting new conditions for experimentation, a failure will be experienced from the outset, a failure to have known in advance what it means to touch. This is because a call to touch is always bounded to some extent within certain  predefined  expectations:  touch  depends  on  a  certain  preunderstanding of what are considered its acceptable limits. Touch, but touch this way! No matter how carefully crafted, no participatory art event is ever completely exempt from this imbrication of touch with the expectations that accompany it. For touch, as Jacques Derrida (2005) has shown, can never be completely disentwined from tact. This strange intertwining of touch with tact, of touch’s inherent injunction to be “hands-on” and its elusive demand to know in advance what participation means in each instance, is the complex challenge of any art practice that asks of the spectator to be involved in the carrying-through of the work. I have elsewhere called this activation of the sensing body an instance of a “politics of touch” (Manning 2007), emphasizing that within the realm of touch lies both tact-driven behavior that orients to premapped and preordained notions of participation and the opportunity to rearticulate the political toward a thinking in movement that emphasizes the gesture of a reaching-toward that can activate a co-composing relational field. With participatory art, I believe a politics of touch is always at stake—a politics that trembles between touch-as-tact and touch as the activity through which new constellations for the bodying are created (and where the line between body and environment is smudged).