“This is our dance without bodies / Where every touch has meaning, / and no glance is ever wasted. / This is the language we speak.” This is the language we speak, a language between the sounding of words, a language in the shaping for “we who can float outside time.”1 This is the language we speak, a language beyond communication, a language that shapes a different kind of coming-together, a different kind of being-heard. This is the language we speak, autispeak. But it is also the language we speak, anyspeak, a language that spreads across the telling and marks the underneath of wording, a language that is mute and sounding of expressions in the shaping, of becomings-with in the preof articulation. This is the language we speak, written before the words, between the lines, with and across expression and expressibility, where “smiles have no need for faces / and warmth breathes from frozen places.” The language not of syllables but of shapes, the language within language before language that is a field of resonance, an intensive enjoyment of an enthusiasm with and in a world that speaks not in the name of “I” but in the interval where the many become one and are increased by one. “This is our voice in the silence / Where every word has weight, and no thought is ever lost.”
This is a language we hear in autie-type by those whose typing makes felt how the relational is everywhere active in the writing, a language we can also become attuned to in the complex fieldings of choreographic thinking, in the dance of attention, in architectings of mobility that create propositions for an ecology of participation that exceeds what we thought movement could do. This language we never quite speak but are always tuning toward is a language with weight, heavy with not-yet soundings, a language that vibrates in a suspense of the in-act but that acts nonetheless, intensively shaping a worlding that redefines the very core of what we understand as activity. Activist philosophy: the in-act of worldings yet to come, in the tremulous ecological resonance of the elastic almost where movement moves and life lives.