Each tracing is a speciation. It draws not an image so much as a choreographic proposition for a new kind of attuning, a new kind of mapping of experience. These mappings of experience are procedures not for the representation of a movement already lived. They are the activation for life-living of a process of shaping. This shaping takes the shape of enthusiasm when it truly proposes a new mode of existence. “Against all pedagogical methods, all institutional and coercive forms, Deligny develops a mode of common living that consists of tracing” that blossoms in “a living-with” and that consists of “line[s] of drift that borrow one of the trajectories, fugitive, gracile, reedy as a thread without a net” for “there is nothing to say, there is nothing to do, only to exist and trace again” (Han 2006, 190). Tracings, layer upon layer, superimposed on tracing paper, harbingers, as Deligny refers to them, of “an immediate enthusiasm” that touches us without our knowing why, a touching that occurs not through the effects of language but beyond, where “something that cannot be seen” exists, something ineffable but nonetheless “immediately felt” (Deligny 1990).
Tracings make apparent the briefest of felt intervals. “To maintain the interstices, this should be the work of these maps we are tracing” (Deligny 1976, 8). “The maps stop there, at the threshold of the encounter, at the limit of the void and the unbearable, at the confluence of the living and the undecidable” (Han 2006, 192). At this briefest interval, at the threshold of a different kind of togetherness, the tracings define a modality of orientation that exceeds or defies Euclidean maps. For their orienting is a shaping in the encounter. It does not direct or foreshadow. It draws out a confluence. This confluence activates new tendencies, new orientations in the living. These new orientations occur at “the limit of the void and the unbearable,” a limit that tells us nothing—“there is nothing to say”—but speaks instead between the words “at the confluence of the living and the undecidable.” Lines of drift: a tracing that activates an encounter with an orientation that maps time’s spiral.
The felt interval is an emergent attuning to forces in the moving. What can be felt, here, is the event’s vitality form, a dynamic that “give[s] a temporal and intensity contour to the content” (Stern 2010, 23). What is at stake here is not the content of the image but the activity of the field the event gives rise to: “It is the difference between transcribing a sensation and tracing to permit something wholly other than the already-felt to appear” (Deligny 1976, 11).