The contributory force of a society (a nexus of occasions) on an individual occasion is not quantitatively measurable. Ingression is not about quantitative content per se: it is about the tuning of an occasion toward certain kinds of activations of the past in the present for future-presenting. Style. Style carries across occasions, giving them a sense of consistency. The relational field as it emerges through Kanzi and Prince’s play is imbued with style, marked and fashioned by modes of thought—mentalities—already in counterpoint with their wider comings-to-be. With this in mind, in the spirit of incompletion, I want to turn briefly to one key element of style that I believe makes the question “are you a gorilla?” far less strange than we may at first have assumed it to be. I want to turn once again to autistic perception: a style of perception wherein an encounter with the world does not begin by sorting the field into objects or subjects.
But first, let me repeat: autistic perception is a tendency in perception on a continuum with all perception, not a definition of autism. It is a style that has been remarked upon by the many autistics whose voices we’ve heard throughout, a perceptual style that actively thinks-feels the edgings and contourings of fields of relation coagulating into instances of shaped experience. As the writings of these autistics attest to, the direct experience of the in-actness of worlding results in an ecological sensibility to life-living. Lest it has not been clear enough when the concept has come up throughout this book, let me repeat: while all autistics I have encountered prize this mode of perception, none of them would ever create a simplified relay between autistic perception and the everyday experience of an autistic. For autism is a complex world at once full of perceptual richness and replete with painful misalignments to everyday neurotypical existence, many of them of the motor variety that make independent living if not impossible, then very difficult.11 Not only that: there is no “single” autism. Autism is a spectrum,with as many infinities of perceptual difference as there are within the misidentified “neurotypical” group.