Another point  raised  in my  exchange of letters  with  A/G (2006) is just  how  to incorporate a moral  dimension. Towards the  end  of our  exchange, A/G raised the  issue  of  ethical   affordances and   ethical   landing sites.  At  one  level  A/G provides us  with  the  ultimate ethical  contribution—”going beyond this  mortal coil”  and  evading dying. Further, aspects of their  approach to architecture are derived from  a strong reaction against the horrors of mass  killing,  whether they occurred in Hitler’s  Holocaust or the  United States’ dropping atomic  bombs  on Japan  in  the  context  of wanting to  end  World  War  II with  a minimal loss  of United States’  lives.  Clearly  the  dignity and  preciousness of  life  is  an  ethical stance  intrinsic to their open  and provisional approach to architecture (see Keller, Knesl,  Lynn  & Reiser  1997). It is clearly  a more  ethical  architectural approach than  often  occurs  under the aegis  of aspects of modernity with  its authoritarian aesthetics. For example, what  kind  of architectural body  could  come out of a 50- story  concrete  and  glass  rectangle? The fact is that  urban renewal projects  using the modernist architectural model  have  led to the horrors of public  housing such as Pruit-Igoe where due  to rampant vandalism and  crime,  a relatively new  set of buildings  had   to  be  demolished.  Clearly,   there   is  an  ethical   component  to architecture and  A/G’s “provisional holding in place”,  with  its multifaceted architectural procedures are the very  antithesis of the modernist approach. Their procedural architecture fairly exudes a democratic ethos.  It should also be noted that  A/G’s  models for  future buildings include plans  for  a community where different architectural procedures could  be experienced by shifting from one building to another. Such an approach would likely enhance A/G’s metastrategy of keeping people open  to change through tentativeness-inducing procedures.