living   at  the  individual and   the  communal  level.  However,  there   are  some possible omissions that  have  ethical-moral implications. A/G have  not have  not yet  sufficiently explored  a  relational  level  of  analysis  such   as  incorporating Buber’s  (1970)  “in  the   beginning  there   is  the   relation”  and   Levinas’  Other (Levinas,  Poller & Cohen  2005) in their  discourse. Specifically,  it may  be claimed that  when a person is both  sited  and  situated this is the beginning of moral responsibility. To have  a place  in most  surrounds means  that  we  are  placed in relation to actual  others—the Other,  towards whom we have  an obligation to be concerned about.  A/G need  to move  from  postulating an organism that  persons to an organism that interpersons (Baron 2005). Specifically,  a personing organism has social concerns but they are expressed from the point  of view of the I and  not the  “we”.  For  example, A/G’s  instruction “act  as  if you  are  an  organism that persons who  lives  in  a community” (Gins  2010, personal communication) is a step in the right  direction. However, this is not a socially shared cognition where we act with the other.  Only  the interpersoning organism recognizes that  landing sites are potentially windows of environmental opportunity that specify points of joint entry  into the social surround. For example, selecting  a landing site, affords the  possibility of social power. Sitting  at the  head  of the  table  allows  a person to dominate the flow of information. Such situations, when regularized in a broader setting  such as a classroom, become  the modules out of which  a Behavior  Setting (Barker 1968) is organized. Indeed, Behavior  Settings  promote landing sites both “top-down” and  “bottom-up”. A classroom provides a “top-down” dispersal of landing sites because it is hierarchical. A teacher situated in the front  of a row of seats  and   students positioned “down stream” can  be  seen  as  leading to  the formation of different landing sites for teachers and  students. Further, team  play may provide an opportunity for shared landing sites to emerge. Indeed in Baron (2005),  I  suggested that   an  important  neglected dimension of  cooperation  is shared conceptual-perceptual partitioning of the environment. This treatment of landing sites can create  a “mutually shared social field” (Asch 1952). It opens  the possibility of devising architectural procedures that  facilitate  such  coordinations (Baron 2005).