In 2003, Fabre decided to reanimate this film in a new choreographic installation featuring dancer Ivana Jovic. In a carefully designed setting, Jovic gives an astonishing performance of a folie a deux (a shared madness, but also here in the sense of felt doubleness of virtual/actual--that rhythm that Deleuze describes as unlivable), a specifically modern form of madness and  hallucination which  is also fully shared by the participants. The intensity of her performance is rendered simultaneously close and available (by her physical proximity to the spectators, on a stage merely inches off the ground in the centre  of the space), and technologized and distant (by her use of a microphone and by the darting of her directed attention between audience and screen, and her dramatization of private speech  spoken aloud). We see her as a live body  and a cinematic body--a dramatic presentational immediacy of alterity. Initially,  the piece appears to be a reworking of the original monologue into a dialogic structure, with Jozic commenting directly on the image  and  speech  of Forsythe. What becomes  clear however, is that neither monologue nor dialogue is an apt description of the experience. Language and meaning continually devolve into a plastic
immediacy, missing the mark  of reception, snatched out of mid air to become  a thing  of breath, amplification, spit, and  affective  repetition. Forsythe’s monologue alone does not create a closed space of an interior landscape--he appears spoken through by the thoughts he presents. The repeated “I” of the piece is like a foreign  word, in its continual exchange with  an Eye that is in both the live performance and in its rapid and fragmentary editing, particularly in the
opening remark of Forsythe’s first line: “I’m back from death”. The film plays out
during the performance on all four screens  of the stage space, sometimes simultaneously, at other  times in disjunction. The intimacy and immersion of the setting is continually and curiously doubled by the sense of an absolute attentiveness to and  an unseizable fleeting  of knowledge.