In 1996, Dirt Devil Vacuums premiered a commercial during the Superbowl. The commercial generated both delight and disgust in equal  measure. [8] Using digital effects that were state of the art at the time, the ad’s creators re-edited a scene from the 1951 film Royal Wedding, featuring Fred Astaire  dancing in a gymnasium with a coatrack, barbells and other  objects, showing instead him dancing with  a vacuum cleaner.   The original scene, while  a tour-de-force of
virtuosity on Astaire’s part,  is especially notable for two things--one, the animatic qualities of the objects Astaire  partners and  secondly, the way in which  the sequence, in a mode  characteristic of the dysnarrative of musical numbers, makes sensible  a “polyphony of subjectivities”, of objects and  environment participating beyond the simple  virtuosity of Astaire,  as a “multiplicity of ways  of keeping time”.  In the original film, the dance  is initiated as if by accident; Astaire  braces himself  on the coat rack in order to lean out of a door  and  pushing back into the room,  finds the coat rack glued to his hand with  a force of attraction. The entire sequence becomes  less about  a sense of partnering as an intersubjective
encounter, and  more  about  a reanimation of the spatio-temporal coordinates of
the scene. Astaire  sets a metronome running at the beginning of the scene, but doesn’t  so much  move  to the beat as twist  and push within it, frequently employing a spiraling movement to fold a visual  rhythm against the sound, highlighting weight and  gravity only to extend and delay  their  effects. The scene becomes  a moment out of time, a stolen  moment--a clock figures  prominently in the background, he checks his watch  on occasion,  the metronome keeps its beat but the sequence itself steps out of clock-time. The sense of duration here is not determined by the long shots giving  a spatial integrity to Astaire’s body  or movements, but comes through the playful opening to potential that consistently reworks the set space. In the scene, Astaire doesn’t so much  dance  with  discrete objects as he is caught up in their relation as attractors.