The in and of movement folds. Elastic, we feel the becoming-form of movement’s shape. In the amodal tactility of elasticity, force is stored and then released. Elasticity acts on the movement. The release liberates the figure, not a figure that was there all along, but a figure that is virtually creating itself in the interval. Almost-virtual.
The folds of potential movement ingress into the dance. A folding-unfolding as much as an involution-evolution propulses the movement. This movement-with is alive in the associated milieu that is the interval, productive, brimming with sensation. Rhythm, the regenerative force of the associated milieu, is the transducer of sensation, the élan vital that provokes projections of sense into becoming-movement. Without rhythm, becoming-movement tends to divide and become diffuse. For relational movement, intensive rhythmic movement is key— diffusion guarantees confusion. This does not mean that we move to a rhythm. It means we move rhythm—that the very becoming of the movement is rhythmic. Rhythm takes two. Moving the relation is a rhythmic encounter with a shifting interval. Rhythm moves us before we know where we are going, even when we momentarily lose our connection. A typical situation: I change my mind suddenly and move not where the pulse of preacceleration was moving the relation but where I suddenly decide I want to go. What happens: she hesitantly move not into the space I physically open, but into the opening I preaccelerated toward before leading the direction I now expect her to follow. She moves where the movement was moving us—where I thought about going—rather than where I went. Although I never actually moved where the relation was moving, she felt a kind of doubled force of movement moving and responded to its first tendency: the direction I thought I had not led. She moved into my hesitation. Of course, this is part of moving together. At best, my response will be to follow her lead, moving-with the force of the initial preacceleration into the experiential space-time I didn’t think I had opened up. Rhythms are never predictable.