Relations are inseparable from affective tone, or concern. And affective tone is inseparable from the modes that relations create and through which relations move. The becoming-body of dance is the composition of a relation. How this becoming-body does what it can do is its concern. The body in this case is not the individual but the mattering-form that emerges through inflection’s elastic point. In its taking form this becoming-body is always relational, produced in the between of the mobile relation. It is pure plastic rhythm, an intensive body. Modes affect us. In the mode of the interval, for instance, as she and I move together, we may feel the rhythm change, propulsed by a syncopation of the music that takes hold of the in-gathering of the movement and expresses it as tight or bumpy, taking us suddenly out of a flowing interval and into a new preaccelerated movement, the elasticity of the almost not quite experienced. More than a shift in our steps, what we experience is an altered affective tone. This colors the rest of the dance. Another instance: someone nudges us from behind, infringing on the precarious metastability of our becoming-relation, creating a sudden displacement that takes over the relation, bringing on frustration and inner tension. Or, as we create an opening toward an extensive movement backward (for her) where her almost-step will transduce into a linear kick, I note with alarm that she is about to kick the wall, leading me to introduce a quick change in direction that shifts our linear energy toward an intensive curving, bringing the elastic point to the movement earlier than anticipated, curving her leg in a tight boleo that wraps around a shifting spiral axis we could not have foreseen. The surprise makes us smile. Improvisation makes room for all of these contingencies. Relation cannot be foretold: it must be experienced. This experience is affective. Its modes will always change, perishing when no longer relevant, opening the way for new modes that continuously affect our becoming-dance.