When Hester entered Mount Carmel hospital in her thirty-sixth year, she descended into an almost constant “immobile” state. After meeting Hester in 1966, Sacks realized with dismay “that it [was] possible for Parkinsonism and catatonia to reach an infinite degree of severity” (Sacks 1990, 97). Sacks describes his meeting with Hester as a realization of the “infinite nature,” “the qualitative infinity” of post-encephalitis under the most dire conditions. This encounter leads Sacks to theorize that the immobility of encephalitis lethargica is a kind of layering of infinitudes of inertial quasi states. He writes: It suddenly came to me that Parkinsonism was a propensity, a tendency—which had no minimum, no maximum, and no finite units; that it was anumerical from its first infinitesimal intimation or twinge, that it could proceed by an infinite multitude of infinitesimal increments to an infinite, and then more infinite, and still more infinite, degree of severity. And that its “least part,” so to speak, possessed (in infinitesimal form) the entire, indivisible nature of the whole. (Sacks 1990, 97n63)
Because of the severity of her condition, Hester’s “awakening” is particularly striking, not least because of her remarkable ability to articulate states unimaginable to those of us who have no trouble getting moving. One of the aspects of her disease Hester describes is the experience of the “smoothness” of space during her “catatonic” states. Smoothness for Hester is akin to having “no sense of process of forces or field” (qtd. in Sacks 1990, 112n71). Standing in for the propelling force of activation is a flatness, an uninterrupted vista of nothingness, an infinitely slowed-down movie experience that she can but watch passively “like a movie film which is running too slow” (1990, 112n71). Hester describes herself as inertially alive in her movie-world but incapable of relating to an “elsewhere.” The only option left: to replay her movie in slow-motion in an inward-folding account of the same nowhere again and again to infinity.