Felix Guattari proposes a composed matrix of subjectivity that resists a return to the realm of the unconscious to enhance its recombinations. Guattari’s concept of subjectivity depends on an active and dynamic recombination of the virtual and the actual. Subjectivity is no longer exclusively located in a body: it is a collective moving-through. Remapped onto the vocabulary of the interval, we might see subjectivity as a provocation that effects the recomposing of bodies-in-the-making, creating not fixed subjects but infra-individuations.
Guattari sees this process of subjectivization as parallel to worlding, continuously reactualized through events of the present passing. This productive consciousness depends on machines of combination such as the series individual-group-machine-world. This series is always already collective in the sense of its operating at vectors of relation and exchange. Subjectivity as Guattari proposes is a kind of heteropoiesis, a self-production in which the myriad components (prosthetic-organic) participate in the production and transformation of one another. Subjectivity “makes itself collective” (Guattari 1995, 22). This does not mean that subjectivity as inherently collective is already political  or social, but that the collectivity that is an emergent sensing body in movement is invariably an emergent articulation of the political.
Collective must be understood here in terms of the nexus of actual occasions prehended through the eventness of the interval. Collectivity deploys itself in excess of any individual (one or many) to an idea of the infra-individuating recombination that is never one or many but always at the threshold from one to the other. To develop a thought of relation that refrains from positing the individual as the starting point allows us to multiply the interval. Despite the fact that prehension restricts us to an actual occasion that is monadic in its completion, it provides the potential for Guattari’s notion of subjectivity: prehension produces the potential for a nexus through which the collective as singularity can be thought.