state or citizen. For it is apparent that for Schmitt the question of friend and enemy cannot be thought separately from the state, and more particularly, the state of exception.
What I am seeking here is a friendship that cancels out a certain geneal- ogy that depends on ﬁliation, on fraternity, on national belonging: “to think and live a politics, a friendship, a justice which begin by breaking with their naturalness or their homogeneity, with their alleged place of origin” (Der- rida 1997, 105). As Derrida suggests, “no deconstruction without democ- racy, no democracy without deconstruction” (1997, 105). Wong Kar Wai’s Happy Together could be perceived as this kind of engagement, as a decon- struction of the idea of democracy achieved through the complication of the matters at its core: love, friendship, sexuality, touch, nation. The difﬁcult challenge the ﬁlm embraces is the very open-endedness necessary to think a democracy-to-come that would also be a friendship-to-come. Wong Kar Wai expresses these contradictions through a narrative of desire that ultimately “fails,” if failure is understood here as the undoing of the dreams of the past. There is no happy ending for Lai-Yu Fai and Po-Wing. Yet something else is achieved in this processual space-time of becoming, and this is a certain openness to the challenges of friendship and bodies-in-motion.
This is expressed through the growing friendship between Fai and Chang initiated toward the end of the ﬁlm. Chang brings a special quality to Fai, not touch, but hearing. The two men meet in the Chinese restaurant where they work. This new job of Lai-Yu Fai’s is a rebellion against his position as an outsider in the tango bar. At least here, in the Chinese restaurant, we might surmise, he is amongst “his own kind.” But there really is no such thing in Wong Kar Wai’s ﬁlms, and so what we encounter in this new place is not familiarity but simply another kind of difference. Chang observes Fai and takes over the voice-over of the ﬁlm. The mood of the ﬁlm is somber: in the previous scene we witnessed Fai lying on a barge on the river with shots of La Boca and the sad and complex music of Piazzola’s “Zero Hour.” The water in this scene is shot as though it were an endless highway, strangely reminiscent of the long stretch toward the not-yet-reached Iguazu Falls.
In the following scene, Fai is sick and Chang takes care of him, taking him home and putting him to bed. Too worn out to make an effort toward this new friendship, Fai listlessly accepts Chang’s help. Over time, however, they do become closer, though Fai continues to ﬁnd it difﬁcult to conﬁde in Chang. It is only at the end of the ﬁlm that he ﬁnally takes the initiative to pursue this friendship, and by then, Chang is nowhere to be found. This is