the challenge of the “perhaps,” that moment of indeterminacy of the yet-to- come. If friendship (and here we could substitute the political) is a certain suspension in time and space, it is only in this portion of the ﬁlm that we begin to take count of this suspension, a suspension arrived at through a focus on hearing. “I had an eye problem when I was little,” Chang tells Fai. “But I never lost the habit of listening. You know, I think ears are more important than eyes. You can see better with your ears. You can pretend to be happy, but your voice can’t lie.” “Touch with your ears,” Chang seems to be saying to Fai, for whom any contact at all has become too painful.
A friendship of hearing? Could we conceive of hearing as that which might lead us (if we listen carefully) to a notion of friendship that would circumvent the concept of hearth, of presence, of resemblance, afﬁnity, anal- ogy? Perhaps. An “aneconomic” friendship, to use Derrida’s term (1997, 155). “I hear you!” we might joyously exclaim. “I am listening, ﬁnally.” There is something to this, particularly if we return to tango as an analogy. Touching is always also a listening, a moving away from the economic (oikos) toward a condition of emergence that calls forth an improvisation of body, of movement, of sexuality, of friendship, of the political. Is the listening of which Chang speaks not an opening toward an other, an appealing to an other that calls an other in his or her retreat? I touch you to listen, I listen to you touch, I am in con-tact with you. I cannot touch you without listen- ing to your response, without responding in turn. No touch (haphe, in Greek) without  con-tact.
The ﬁnal moment of contact between Chang and Lai-Yu Fai is poignant, expressed through the sense of hearing. Chang explains to Fai that he is on his way to Ushuaia, a place known as “the end of the world.” There, the legend goes, people are invited to dump all their emotional problems. Since Chang does not like photographs, he asks Fai to leave a few words on his tape recorder as a memento, words he will then leave in Ushuaia. “Any- thing from your heart,” Chang tells Fai as he moves away to dance. “Even say something sad. I’ll carry it to the end of the world.” “I’m not sad,” Fai responds. “Something cheerful, then.” For a long time, Fai holds the recorder to his mouth, sitting alone in the corner. Then he begins to cry, to sob, to throw up. He cannot speak, he cannot make contact. Chang leaves with the empty message. Lai-Yu Fai returns to hug him. “How is it we’ve become so close?” Lai-Yu Fai asks himself in a voice-over. “For a moment all I can hear is my own heart beating. Does he hear it too?” Through listening (even to his own silence, to his own heart beating), Fai has been touched, he has made con-tact.