What we begin to perceive, in this last section of the ﬁlm, is the manner in which the body can become what Massumi calls a “sensible concept” through a politics of friendship. If perceptions are, as Massumi argues, always possi- ble actions, what we experience in the ﬁnal scenes of the ﬁlm is the possible action of a friendship, a friendship as a possibility-to-come. And since there is no ideal beginning or end to a politics of friendship, we are faced with a vision of the “perhaps,” framed, as it so often is, in Wong Kar Wai’s haunt- ing cinematography, through discordant and hesitant shots where self and other remain asymmetrical to themselves and to one-another. The camera refuses to name, to classify, to hold down. Instead, singularity is maintained, envisioned through a camera that remains curious, tentative, engaging.
Massumi suggests that “sensation is the registering of the multiplicity of potential connections in the singularity of a connection already under way. It is the direct experience of a more to the less of every perception.... [I]t is a limit of experience immanent to every step along the continuum” (2002a, 93). Sensation is multiplicitous, multi-identiﬁcatory, multifaceted. There is never linearity in sensation: we have all experienced the way a sound can lead to a smell, to a memory of a touch, to a taste. The senses combine, lay- ered, infused into one into another. Sensation, this movement of reaching- toward, lies at the basis of a politics of friendship that would no longer be a dichotomous practice functioning as a democratic moment of ﬁliation, but a composite event, an emergence that leaves our senses peaked. “Sensation is the point of co-conversion through which the variations of perception and thought play-out. It is the singular point where what unfolds is also unfolding” (Massumi 2002a, 94).
Left without Chang in Buenos Aires, Po-Wing no longer actively in his life, Lai-Yu Fai wanders the streets in search of human contact, ﬁnding him- self, ultimately, in  a  gay  bathhouse.  Here,  where  the  quiet  partitioned spaces evince their loneliness, Fai realizes that he is no different from other lonely men: “I never liked hanging around in toilets,” he says in a voice- over. “I thought it was dirty. I thought I was different. Turns out that lonely people are all the same.” Po-Wing hovers in the shot. Isolation is embodied in this scene alongside (absent) desire and the craving for contact. Desire propels the body. Without desire, movement slows down and the body becomes heavy, limp, increasingly unreachable. Politics becomes masked behind need as initiative wanes. Touch becomes unthinkable. To touch, an initiative is necessary, and it is this initiative, so essential to love, to friend- ship, to politics, that Fai ﬁnds so impossible to envisage as he makes his way through the bathhouse. Even the blowjob he gives another man in the movie