A Last Tango
Finally, Lai-Yu Fai is on his way to Iguazu Falls, Piazzola playing in the back- ground. The road is ﬂat, uneventful. The shot frames Fai driving, shifting then to Po-Wing, in the very different setting of El Sur, dancing. The scene cuts to the kitchen tango between Po-Wing and Lai-Yu Fai, the images moving restlessly between the past and the present. In Buenos Aires, night falls as Po-Wing passes out on the cobblestones in front of the tango bar. Silence. It is midnight. We cut to Fai cleaning out the apartment, to longer night silences, to Fai losing himself in the lamp of the falls, crying, Piazzola playing once again in the background. “I ﬁnally reach Iguazu,” says Lai-Yu Fai in the voice-over. “Suddenly, I think of Po-Wing. I feel very sad. I be- lieve there should be two of us standing here.” The falls are majestic, alive, caught by the lens of the camera in shades of blue, the camera itself wet from the mist and the drops of water in the air. This is a long, slow shot. Time is no longer of the essence. The bodies have shifted, creating a new time and space, a spaced-time, a timed-space.
Friendship is also loss, the multiplicity of singularities and the singularity of multiplicities, the impossibility of a future without a present. There is never a sole friend. Friendship cannot be calculated. This is politics, a politics of friendship: in politics, calculation cannot happen in advance. A politics of friendship is akin to what Derrida terms “destinerrancy,” a movement with- out destination, a politics without end. A politics of friendship is about dis- agreement, about misunderstanding, about the necessity to listen in order to be heard in order to listen again. A politics of friendship is alive through the touch of an-other, embodying the insatiability of my need to reach out toward you, to touch your singularity, my difference, to make con-tact with you. “The crucial experience of the perhaps,” writes Derrida, “imposed by the undecidable — that is to say, the condition of decision — is not a moment to be exceeded, forgotten or suppressed. It continues to constitute the deci- sion as such . . .” (1997, 219). Response-ability carries within itself an ethics of contact, of response, a necessity to cross the space-time between me and you, even perhaps to do violence to space and time in order to be certain that movement is what is at stake. Without movement, there is no capacity to respond, to touch, to be a friend. How can I be responsive if I do not reach out toward you?
“Sensation,” writes Massumi, “the substance of the body, is not the pres- ence of the ﬂesh in its envelope, but the presence in the ﬂesh of an outside force of futurity” (2002a, 115). My body opens toward yours. Even without