contact, there is no closure of the body, just a holding-in, a slowing down of the movement. In movement, I sense you, I alter the space that I cross between us, that you cross to reach me, I allow you to touch me, to make con-tact. “The body is opening itself to qualitative change, a modiﬁcation of its very deﬁnition, by reopening its relation to things” (Massumi 2002a, 116). Sensation is the potential to invent, to invent the in-betweenness out of which my body, your body, moves, senses, and multiplies. Sensation recon- nects the body, not to its-self, but to relation. Desire is one of the main ingre- dients of this re-cognition. I sense to desire, even if I do not necessarily desire to sense. I touch contact. Movement is not indexed to position, our positionality is our movement, our politics is our friendship, our touch is our politics.
Chang arrives at Ushuaia, at the lighthouse that is the end of his journey:
July 1997. I ﬁnally arrive at the end of the world. I left Taipei because I hated home. I always have to serve at the stall. Actually, serving at the stall isn’t  so bad. I made a fool of myself. I feel very happy. I promised Fai to leave his sadness here. I don’t know what he said that night. Maybe the recorder broke down. Nothing is on the tape. Only a couple of strange noises like someone sobbing.
The camera frames Chang, alone, on top of the world, the blue sky radiant behind and above him. Later, Chang searches for Fai in Buenos Aires, to no avail: “The night before I leave for Taipei, I come back to Buenos Aires. I want to say goodbye to Fai. Nobody knows where he is. I thought I’d hear his voice here. Maybe the music’s too loud. I can’t hear anything.” Chang still tries to hear Fai, he believes contact is possible. And he’s right: the next shot shows Fai in Taipei, searching for Chang.
Friendship is not a telos. Desire prevails as the moment of uncertainty whose gap in space and time we cherish, whose politics we acclaim as the point of departure, of disagreement, of sensation, of hope. “If man has friends,” writes Derrida, “if he desires friends, it is because man thinks and thinks an other” (1997, 224). Friendship is human, it is of the world, it worlds. Friendship is political, it is a reminder that all thought, all sense, all touch, all language is for and toward an other. As Derrida writes, “there is thinking being—if, at least, thought must be thought of an other—only in friendship....I think, therefore I am an other; I think, therefore I need an other (in order to think)” (1997, 224). Friendship is a movement of sensa- tion, a politics of touch that challenges me to (mis)count myself as other. Friendship is a condition of emergence, it is where my senses lead me, it is the fold of experience out of which a certain politics is born. Friendship is a