space of experience, “a topological hyperspace of transformation” (Massumi 2002, 184). Not a phenomenology, and certainly not a return “home.”
Perhaps this is why Chang and Fai do not meet in Taipei. Their friend- ship—a friendship-to-come—is not about home, nor is it about “return- ing.” “I don’t know when I’ll see Chang again,” says Fai in the voice-over once he has arrived in Taipei on his way to Hong Kong. “What I know is, if I want to, I know where I can ﬁnd him.” Friendship turns the world upside down, subverting identities, transgressing nationalities. This is being “happy together.” There is no “home” in this image, no certainty or predictability. It is not about Buenos Aires or about Hong Kong, it is about the movements in the space-times in-between. Is there a thought of democracy here? “It would therefore be a matter of thinking an alterity without hierarchical dif- ference at the root of democracy,” writes Derrida (1997, 232). Can being “happy together” in the sense Wong Kar Wai gives the notion be thought of as a certain agonistic democratic experience of difference? Can bodies in motion meet “democratically”? “This democracy,” writes Derrida, “would free a certain interpretation of equality by removing it from the phallogo- centric schema of fraternity” (1997, 232). A democracy without symmetry, an inﬁnite alterity, a movement that invents divergent positionalities that converge, that make contact, that disperse?
Friendship is not given. If we accept this, can we not accept that neither is democracy a given? Can we not listen to one another disagree, instead of imposing consensus and thus silencing all others, even ourselves? A con- sensual democracy is nothing other than an act of exclusion. This is why the condition of possibility of democracy is at the same time the condition of impossibility of its full realization (Mouffe 1995, 36). “Democracy remains to come” writes Derrida. Democracy, like friendship, like the political, like touch, belongs to the chronotope of the “perhaps,” in the present-to-come. There is no future for democracy, not if democracy is to be political, that is, reinvented, re-contacted, re-sensed. “Even when there is democracy,” writes Derrida, “it never exists, it is never present, it remains the theme of a non- presentable concept” (1997, 306). A politics of touch exceeds democracy as it continues to be implemented, reminding us that democracy can never precede the movements of the body. Through movement we feel, we sense, and it is now, in con-tact with our reaching-toward, that we begin to listen, to engage, to concede, to disagree. This is democracy-to-come, a politics of sensing bodies in movement.
3.
Erring toward Experience: Violence and Touch