of the potential rupture between the endless vista of conformity heaven represents and the chaos of the world. The violent moment of decision in the touching of the apple is the moment when I realize that I have “fallen,” that there is no longer a separation between self and other, between Adam and Eve and the rest of humanity. As Hent de Vries and Samuel Weber write, “violence” could no longer be considered simply to “befall” its victims from without, but rather would be related to what is generally presupposed to be its other: the “inviolate” self (1997, 2).
The Bible frames touch as both that which contaminates, “Or if a soul touch any unclean thing, whether it be a carcase of an unclean beast, or a carcase of unclean cattle, or the carcase of unclean creeping things, and if it be hidden from him; he also shall be unclean, and guilty” (Lev. 5:2), and that which heals, “And withersoever he entered, into villages, or cities, or country, they laid the sick in the streets and besought him that they might touch if it were but the border of his garment and as many as touched him were made whole” (Mark 6:56). In either case, touch represents a certain violence of transformation. Violence, here, is the suggestion not of a tran- scendental category, but of a rupture within humanity as humanity under- stands itself, a rupture that induces at once guilt and healing. For some, it appears, touch is the ultimate gift, for others, the certain demise into the ﬁlth of humanity.
Can I touch without violence? Can I think of transformation without being jolted by the violence of change? Can I even consider the reciprocal relationship that exists when I reach out to touch you (when I become other through touch) without being aware of the violence induced by my recognition of myself as other? As de Vries writes, “What would it mean to think of violence as an inescapable horizon or inherent potentiality of any act, or of any refraining from action?” (1997, 18). Is violence not intimately engaged in the historicization of the body, of Being as such? “Discourse,” suggests de Vries, “whether inﬁnite or not, whether ethical or not, demands some negotiation with its other—namely, violence—if it is to minimize the risk of allowing the worst violence to come to pass” (1997, 24). Must the discursive body, the body in movement that reaches out to touch, always also be a violent body, and if so, can we recognize violence not only as the harbinger of guilt but also of experience? For the apple is about experience, even if this experience is that of the “baseness” of humanity.
Could we suggest, then, that reaching out to touch an other is a moment of acknowledgment, a moment of recognition of the will not toward God but toward the earth? Might we conceive of touch as a reaching out toward