Now that the link between touch and violence is becoming more appar- ent, it is necessary to draw a map for violence and the political. It will then become possible to orchestrate a symphonic rendering of the link between touch and the political, a link which I believe will be useful in the rethink- ing of what it means to touch an other. Here, the political implies a rela- tionship (in disagreement) with an other that calls for an important mea- sure of difference and can assist in the creation of time and space. I would like to imagine creation of time and space in accordance with the notion that the body exceeds its own boundaries, making it impossible for us to draw a sensual body as a stable entity within time and space. Time and space here become excessive even to themselves, an echo of the multidimension- ality of sensation, of difference, of overlapping reciprocities. I would like to suggest, also, that the violence that erupts through the many ruptures and transformations involved in the sensing, touching body can be conceived of as different from and more productive than the violence the state imposes onto the “stable” bodies of its citizens.
Within the vocabulary of nationalism and the nation-state, violence reigns as the constant signiﬁer of (in)security. To evoke a discourse of secu- rity, the threat of violence must persist. Manichean thought attempts to resolve the issue of violence by associating violence with the other who is generally understood, within the vocabulary of the nation-state, as the adversary. The positing of the other as adversary results in a tendency to construe violence as the intrusion of the other who must remain outside the bounds of my territory (usually the nation-state). Violence is thus articu- lated as the violation of the self-same by an external intruder. If we consider the body as congruent with the national body-politic, we might be led to believe that any intrusion into the body would be a violence in and of itself (even the touch of a virus, for example). Yet it seems to me that this vocab- ulary short-changes the body. Is the body not in excess of this easy distinc- tion between inside and outside? If so, might we not be suspicious of a political body that acts as such a stern guarantor of the limits of inclusion and exclusion?
Within the vocabulary of the nation-state, violence is not simply framed as the exclusive character of the other, but is even more powerfully con- ceived of as a means through which the self is constituted and maintained. Touch challenges this dichotomy, creating not a self and an other, but a third space, a reciprocal body-space that challenges the limits of both self and self as other. Touch refuses a simpliﬁed condensation of the encounter