between you and me, refuses to speak only about the point of departure and the point of return. Touch grapples with the impossibility of fusion in the movement of desire that is directed toward you and, reciprocally, toward myself. The violence is not in the moment of apprehension (if touch is reciprocal, I cannot touch you “violently,” that is, without your con-sent3), but in the decision to reach toward. The violence exists in the reaching out toward that which will remain unknowable. State violence, on the other hand, seems to rely on the pretense that the unknowable could simply be the unknown and therefore potentially conquerable through comprehen- sion and domination.
God’s warning regarding touch is a directive to resist the temptation of the unknowable. For there is a difference, in the Bible, between the injunc- tion made through God not to touch given to the populace, which is always phrased in the conditional, “Then said Haggai, if one that is unclean by a dead body touch any of these, shall it be unclean. And the priests answered and said, It shall be unclean” (Hag. 2:13), and the act of touching perpe- trated always by Jesus, which is phrased in the active tenses of the past, present, and future, “And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for there went virtue out of him, and healed them all” (Luke 6:19). It appears that the only one who is allowed to challenge the unknowable is the savior himself, the one who has been sent to heal us from the unknowable, the one who solves the mysteries of humanity through his miracles.
Might we then conceive of the touch of God himself, or the almost- touch we encounter on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, as the temptation to relay to God the unknowability of life on earth? In this scene between God and Adam, we recall the gesture of God’s index ﬁnger reaching towards Adam’s ﬁnger without ever quite touching it. Did Michelangelo, whose work evokes touch brought to life through sculpture, know something about touch and its virile potentiality that most biblical scholars and art historians continue to ignore? Was Michelangelo, with his image of the almost-touch, perhaps trying to relay to us the impossible violence of that ﬁrst touch, a touch that causes the fall from grace, a touch which, had God reached Adam’s ﬁnger, might have given God a real glimpse of humanity? For God cannot touch in this manner, that is, not if touch is a reciprocal act, since God, as he is conceptualized in the Bible, is the absolute other through whom every notion of alterity is transformed into the self-same and with whom reciprocity does not even come into play. God knows better than to touch: “God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest