An interesting aspect of Michelangelo’s image of Adam and God with ﬁngers almost touching is that it is difﬁcult to tell who is reaching toward whom. In this regard, the fresco symbolizes touch in its most transparent reciproc- ity. I cannot touch you without you touching me in return. I cannot feel your skin without you feeling me. This, it seems to me, is imprinted on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel: Hands are dangerous, for in reaching toward an other, they can undermine  the  hierarchical  opposition  between  self and other, reducing this exchange to a moment of sharing that potentially exceeds the two individuals, the two bodies in motion. These are transac- tional bodies, bodies engaged in the decision to touch or not to touch an other. Through touch, bodies are created. Is that why, in this particular case, the ﬁngers do not touch? One interpretation would be that God does not decide to reach far enough toward Adam to actually touch him. Yet they are both reaching, meeting almost half-way, which might lead us to believe that there is something more at stake in the moment of unreacha- bility between the Self-Same and the unknowable.
In the consensus of interpretation, what we witness in Michelangelo’s scene of creation is God infusing life into Adam, ﬁnger to ﬁnger. Traditional interpretation does not privilege this moment as one of near touch, for, in much of this literature, touch is conceived of as the sense that pertains not to the soul, but to matter, hence a sensation that would have no place in the realm of God. In addition, as we have seen in the Bible, hands are not instruments of deiﬁcation (except when used by Jesus) but of degradation and hence not generally associated with God himself. This tradition is car- ried through in Aristotle’s work, in which touch is theorized as the sense of the earthly, a sense foreign to God’s otherworldliness. Indeed, as art histori- ans have pointed out, if God chose to bestow his touch upon humanity, it was much more common for God to touch the male ﬁgure’s head, shoulder, or chest rather than his ﬁnger or hand. And if, by chance, touch were asso- ciated with God through the ﬁgure of the hand, it is not the index ﬁnger that