traditionally would take precedence, but the thumb, for the thumb denoted the sovereignty of the creator, designated since Hippocratic medicine “the great ﬁnger.”
What are God and Adam’s index ﬁngers reaching toward, if not the touch of an other? Perhaps one of the things taking place on this remarkable ceiling is the realization of the earthly impossibility of touching God. Perhaps there is, in this exchange between ﬁngers that do not meet, a suspicion of the violence necessary for their meeting, the violence that would challenge the sovereign God to actually touch the chaotic masses who themselves have taken the risk to reach toward the unknowable and who are continu- ally transformed through this contact with the body-in-metamorphosis. Is it possible that these index ﬁngers reaching toward one another connote a larger and more explicit act of reaching-toward, symbolized through the hand? Indeed, in Renaissance art the hand was often conceived of as a metonym for the human body. In fact, the thumb (pollex, derived from the verb polleo) continues to be connected to the notion of political rule, sym- bolizing strength, power, and potency.
Something is on the verge of being created on Michelangelo’s ceiling. Seductively, erotically, majestically, bodies are reaching toward one another, producing the potential violence of con-tact. What is this violence of the almost-touch? Could we concur with Nietzsche’s suspicion that violence is not embodied by an other but is, rather, the medium that enables concep- tualization itself?
Arrestation and the provocation—the reaching out toward and the touching of an other—exist in an economy of violence. Violence never befalls innocence. This is perhaps the point. The traditional biblical text would like to associate Adam and Eve to an innocence that is sullied by the experience gained through the act of touching, and then ingesting, the apple. But this claim of innocence is itself a violence, for there is no text that is not always already written and therefore implicated in the violence of transformation. Adam’s “innocence” before God’s extended ﬁnger is a dis- cursive innocence idealized to prevent us from acknowledging that to enforce a dichotomy between touch and innocence would be paramount to suggest- ing that our bodies exist as separate entities from our senses. There is no body without touch, as medical ofﬁcials are quick to point out: a child left un- touched is often a child left to die. Why this pretense, then, that Adam’s state before the Fall is one of “untouchability” in the face of God? And why, once again, God’s ﬁnger extended toward Adam’s in Michelangelo’s fresco?