difference that prevents me from being subsumed into the self-same. Vio- lence can be a manner of writing a body that deﬁes the imposition of stabil- ity, that challenges space and time through its sensuality. The body, seen as a potential site of a violence of touch can be conceived of as an exfoliation in the sense José Gil gives the term. The body exfoliates by always already unfolding into the spaces it occupies (1998, ix). This is a state of violence insomuch as it is an infralanguage that speaks through and across the body, creating multiplicities and discontinuities both in my living, sensing body, and in yours, when I reach out toward you.
The exfoliant body that reaches across time and space embodies a vio- lence in its resistance to conform to corporeal expressivity, to the signs and codes that are immediately understood as the space and time a body should occupy within the (national) body-politic. When I touch you, what I can- not know is what infra(sensual)language our reciprocal touch will create. Nor can I predict how my touching you will provoke spaced times and timed spaces. Of course, I can never predict the body “itself” either (since there is no such thing as the body always already whole), hence the state’s contin- ual imposition of the “national body-politic” to establish a normative vocabulary of the body to which we agree to conform. Without a stable body there can be no body-politic, and without a body-politic, bodies will not conform, proclaims the state. What touch achieves in opposition to this state-centered dynamic of the body-politic is the potentiality to appre- hend bodies not as containers of preordained individual signiﬁcations, but as orbs continually readjusting themselves to the infralanguages and move- ments of desire through which they interact.
When I touch you, I confuse the codes of our encounter by altering the space-time between you and me. I also alter something else, a quality difﬁcult to delineate. Touch is ﬁrst and foremost a sensation, a manner of incorpo- rating the world, of embodying the actuality (and virtuality) of an other. Whether I touch my body or yours, I am reaching out toward you beyond a language of comprehension. I cannot predict the effect on my skin, since I cannot know your reaction to my touch and vice versa. This is what makes touch so difﬁcult to embody comprehensively, what makes touch ungrasp- able and indeﬁnable in and of itself. There is no touch that does not reach out. And there are no sign-systems that can completely guarantee that the space I cross to touch you will remain the same after that crossing. Touch is the embodiment of a sense that acquiesces to the unchartable qualities of a body in motion.