and touch is its articulation. Touch articulates the body, giving it a language through which it can begin to feel the world. The skin is a limit for touch, yet this limit is as ﬁnite and as inﬁnite as the multiplicity of skins that make up the world. Touch embodies difference: through touch I ascertain the dif- ference between bodies and surfaces. This espacement that marks the differ- ence between spaces introduces my body to a becoming-space of time and a becoming-time of space. This becoming is the constitution of a subjectivity that is in movement, a subjectiﬁcation that is formed within the tactile hollows of difference.
According to Gil, “Exfoliation is the essential way a body ‘turns onto’ things, onto objective space, onto living things” (1998, 21). Touch might be considered one method of exfoliating the body, since touch crosses space via the body, creating a becoming-body while establishing diverse relations with all that surrounds our bodies. The desire to cross space—to touch an other — is a desire in movement as well as a movement of desire. This invest- ment of desire resigniﬁes the space that separates me from you, awakening my body to the different sensations your body evokes in me. Together, we manifest new sensations as touch expands to an inﬁnity of combinations of skin upon skin, body toward body. This connection of touch that traverses time and space establishes a relation that in turn affects the form and space of all bodies including the “body-politic,” inviting the body as embodiment of a diverging chronotope to become other to that of the nation-state’s soli- tary spaces of conﬁnement.
This negotiation of space is a political event. Its politics are in contra- diction with a linear and bounded conception of space-time proposed by state sovereignty. A politics of touch does not adhere to the notion of a strict inte- riority and exteriority. Rather, it expands the chronotope of the body through a qualitative expansion of exfoliations and surfaces. The decoding process is no longer one made in a vertical relationship between the sovereign and the citizen, or the national and the refugee. There is no decoding process as such. There are experiences, events, that operate in and through the spac- ings of the body: a listening, a seeing, a tasting, a smelling of the senses of the body through touch, a providential integration of one surface into another only to realize that these singularities cannot be meshed but must instead stand alone, side by side, in the third space they create together. What emerges through touch is not a decoding but a qualitative translation of time and space as regards the body, a transformation of space into spaced- time, timed-space. As Gil writes,