Means without an End
The body as a sensory modality engages with an other through a touch that exudes potential violence in its desire to transform the space between self and other. What differentiates this from the national body-politic’s organi- zation of the body is the fact that touch as a reaching-toward is a means without an end. There is no ﬁnal destination where touch is concerned. In fact, there is no self or other as such. The body is the intermediary through which I create, with you, the shared space of our touch, our subjectivity-in- process. Touch as a reaching toward is a gesture of espacement, an instance of the inexorable violence of difference, of the unknowable. Touch is a move- ment toward an other through which I re-cognize myself differently, spacing time as I time space.
My gesture toward you is a momentary one. There is no touch that can last beyond the ﬁrst moment of contact. To touch longer, I must touch again: as my focus shifts elsewhere, my skin soon forgets to acknowledge yours. To touch me you must return the touch to and from yourself in an ongoing process of exchange. Because it is temporary and immediate, the gesture is never more than momentary. This is a political moment in the most ethical sense, for it demands a continual re-articulation rather than a subsuming into the same. If I attempt to subsume you through touch, I will not reach you. Instead, I will inﬂict the worst kind of violence upon your body: your body will act only as the recipient of my directionality. Your body will become prey. If, instead, I acknowledge the ephemerality of the gesture, I risk an opening toward “the sphere of ethos of the most proper sphere of that which is human” (Agamben 2000, 57).
The moment of touch as reaching-toward is a rare moment when the political and the ethical exist side by side. It is rare not only because it hap- pens seldom, but also because it is haphazard, momentary, ephemeral. It is an ethico-politics in deconstruction that brieﬂy resists security, stability, classiﬁcation. This ethico-politics, violent as it may be (since it is always the result of “taking” a decision), releases us momentarily from the border- making dynamic of the state apparatus that, if it were to contend with touch as a means of codifying the body-politic, would make an attempt to imprison this newly created third space within its grids of intelligibility. It is this