ethico-politics that I am attempting to put my ﬁnger on, an ethico-politics that is, by necessity, always slightly out of reach.
Touch, as an ethico-political moment, breaks with the false alternative between ends and means that paralyzes both the ethical and the political within the matrix of regimes of state-imposed territoriality. The mediality of touch is nothing more than a process made visible, a process geared toward the creation and dissemination of my body through the reciprocity of your body, not as an entity as such but as a potentiality. Because touch makes the means of reaching out visible, it can be envisioned as a counterpart to a political moment of encounter, a moment in which there is an emergence of the being-in-mediality of humanity. This moment is ethical not because of the intentions of the one who reaches toward, but because the reaching does not assume anything beyond the intermediacy of a response, that is, beyond the creation of a third space. Even if I pull back and do not quite reach you, I have already altered the space that modulates our bodies-in- relation. The gesture that is touch, whether it reaches you or not, becomes the communication of a communicability. This gesture does not speak in sentences, it speaks the body, reminding us that our skins are always in move- ment through time and space, shedding themselves, shedding our-selves.
The encoding of information through the body’s sense organs is achieved through a relation between body and the environment. Sensory percep- tions depend on the world meeting the body as the body becomes world. The senses translate the body not as the individual but as the relational exchange between worlds and bodies. As Gil writes, “[t]he exfoliations of the space of the body, as abstract forms, integrate the information coming from a perceivable body and make possible its translation into a different object belonging to a different sensual sphere” (1998, 25). The exfoliations of touch on the variegated surfaces of the body as space-time result in the disappearance of the One and the appearance of a singular difference in motion that forever deconstructs itself. Exfoliating, the body dissolves into space, becomes space, re-emerges as space.
This is the metamorphosis of the body of which José Gil speaks, a “condi- tion of the activity of code translation: each exfoliation is the metamorpho- sis of all an other forms in a spatial one” (1998, 38). One is the space of relation: there is no uniﬁed body. There are skins, receptive surfaces, ges- tural movements, desires toward an other. The body is active potential, not tautology.
Aristotle observes throughout his writings that the most common pri- mary perception is touch. Touch, Aristotle suggests, is necessary to the other