senses. The medium that corresponds to touch, according to Aristotle, is the ﬂesh, and the element of touch is the earth. Aristotle somewhat complicates this understanding of touch by suggesting that the organ of touch “must be inside us” (1961, 11, 423b). The invisibility of the organ that represents touch leads Aristotle to ask himself whether touch is one sense or several. For Aristotle, touch is the ﬁrst sense, the one most necessary for the main- tenance of life: “The well-developed sense of touch is the condition of man’s intelligence” (1961, 9). Touch for Aristotle is the sense one cannot live with- out, the sense that human beings have just for the sake of being, whereas other senses, Aristotle suggests, “we have for the sake of well-being” (1961, 13). Touch for Aristotle is the “common sense,” not something above, higher than the separate senses, but their common nature.
Touch as the “common sense” draws us back to the political realm of the state’s res publica and its consensus-based practices of inclusion and exclu- sion. It recalls also the uncanny shift between con-sent and consensus, as it is usually deﬁned. “Common sense” in the Aristotelian sense is closer to con-sent in its etymology of with-sense. Yet, both these terms are usurped within politics to symbolize a gathering of the like-minded. Common sense, like consensus, is often associated with a politics that makes assumptions about its constituents’ knowledge base, a certain afﬁliation within a pre- deﬁned political group. Common sense is too often the dream of consensus that propels the imaginary of the nation and its adjacent narratives of iden- tity and territory. “For the common good” is the practice and the promise of consensus-based politics. Jürgen Habermas’s public sphere and Charles Tay- lor’s politics of recognition come to mind here.
The internal vocation of state politics is the uniﬁcation of aims and the organization of these aspirations into a unique spatiotemporal whole. State politics does not happily suffer tears in its social fabric: politics must be common, and where commonality cannot be located, a line must be drawn to create a ﬁssure between the inside and the outside, between the known and the unknown, the self and the other. This uniﬁcation of forces for the “common good” condones domination in the name of a re-balancing of social relations. Each body must be put in its place. The placing of the body is necessary in order for the distribution of power to adequately inscribe the social order within its own grids of intelligibility. The body becomes intelli- gible insofar as it becomes common. Intelligibility as commonality is the pri- mary political articulation within the language of the nation-state.
Yet there always escapes from the body-politic’s grids of intelligibility a disarticulated remains. These remains contest the sovereignty of the nation-