state from within, even when resistance is not enacted with this purpose in mind.5 A politics of touch is one of the mediums through which the body resists the state. Touch as reaching-toward foregrounds the unknowability at the heart of all bodies of knowledge, reminding us that we cannot know the body as the state claims we do, for no body is ever thoroughly articu- lated. Every body moves differently, in-difference to the state.
Touching an other in a reciprocal gesture of unknowability underscores the incompleteness of the state, which invariably remains incapable of fully subsuming the body into its realm. Touch emphasizes the discrepancy be- tween the violence of the body as multiplicity and the violence of the body as identity. What we know about the state is that it cannot operate without violence: State power cannot exist unless it holds the ultimate and exclu- sive right to force. And this violence reproduces itself in the name of secu- rity as long as the state has not identiﬁed and rendered docile all the bodies in its midst (and along its borders). The violence of touch is, on the other hand, not about policing. It is productive. When the state takes over the body, it attempts to create a bond of reciprocity that is solely hierarchical. When the body leaves the (imaginary of the) state, the body begins to cre- ate other bodies, other worlds. Violence is operational in both these in- stances. Yet, when the body departs from a sovereign, territorialized, bounded space to a worlding, a chronotope emerges that cannot be cleanly delin- eated but through which a juxtaposition and a convergence take place that multiply space-time through textual layerings, creating new bodies-in- movement. Space grows with the body and shrinks with the state.
Certainly violence remains deadly, but in this case the violence is not held exclusively by the state. Now the violence can be envisioned as a net- work of forces that produces effects of power and knowledge with which the body can work. Whereas within the system of state sovereignty infractions remain crimes against the state, the body that challenges the conﬁnes of state sovereignty shares in the potential for violence and therefore conceives of violence not as a moment of an external “be-falling” but as a moment of response-ability. This is an important shift, for when violence is the exclu- sive right of the state, everyone becomes guilty of being guilty, whereas when violence is a shared enterprise between bodies through the complex modality of touch, violence becomes the measure of a response in the tak- ing of a decision which involves a response-ability not only toward an other but also toward myself.
The state needs the body. If we dislodge the body from the state (a con- ceptual predicament always already in progress since the body is continually