Operating amid the body of the national body-politic and the metamor- phosing body (one always an extension of an other, even within the imagi- nary of state-sovereignty) is the notion of violence. Within the state, the body becomes the mechanism through which violence plays itself out—not with the body but to the body. The body becomes a container, a mediator, or an apparatus for violence. As both a Janus-faced mechanism of state practice and an outlaw of the state, violence reﬂects and accelerates the organization of state society, calling forth both its successes and its potential demise. For what violence always holds as its secret is its very indeterminacy, that is, the indeterminacy of its productivity, its force, of its knowledge and power. Vio- lence always exceeds its-self. In this sense, violence is always witness to the incompleteness of its own project. Violence is the constant reminder of the body’s potential for metamorphosis, of its movements of desire and its mul- tiplicitous sensations. Violence is both perpetrator and conduit.
This is not to suggest that violence cannot inﬂict terrible pain upon the body. I do not underestimate the horrors of violence perpetrated in the name of the state or even in the name of touch.6 I simply want to point out that violence also exceeds the state, despite the fact that the state claims ownership of its measures of “security.” A certain violence is often instru- mental in undoing the state, in rendering the state body-less and therefore without the conduit for the production of measures of security that work against the body. This would not be a revolution against the state, but a state-less revolution, a revolution that exposes the state for what it is and risks a certain violence in the name of a decision to approach the skin of an other for no other reason than to reach toward touch, to become political, ethically.
The question of political qualiﬁcation — who can be a political subject? — is simpliﬁed to: who will risk the touch of an other? This is a risk: the skin of an other will always lead me back to my own skin, a trajectory that may inspire nausea7  or even horror.8  Sensations are not governed easily; they