reach deeply into and around the body, creating space and altering the tra- jectories we thought we could delineate cleanly, legitimately, between sens- ing bodies in movement. Sensations are prey to homesickness and to motion sickness.
The social fracture that ensues in response to a politics of touch is a ﬂoating dispersion of the center. Sites of disavowal and disownership, of belonging and abandonment appear in the most unexpected places. Space is rewritten, re-sensed, only to be altered again. Within this shifting net- work of movements of desire, political agency is transformed into a political subjectivity-in-process, which takes decisions and makes demands. These demands exceed the grids of intelligibility that would otherwise contain them. Their violence is breath-taking. It is here that the political body re-emerges: “It comes into view as a mise-en-scène with its own genealogy of domination and resistance” (Feldman 1991, 6). This body is touched by the world even as it reaches out toward it. It is a politicized body that real- izes that there is no story of movement that does not do a certain violence to the space it traverses. Violence can be horrendous. But the body is politi- cal only when it can both receive and disseminate violence, touch, alterity. “The body, altered by violence, re-enacts other altered bodies dispersed in time and space; it also re-enacts political discourse and even the movement of history itself” (Feldman 1991, 7).
Violence is a mode of transcription, both textual and sensory. Reaching out, I do violence to my interiority. Touching you, I do violence to my-self. Receiving, I cut across time and space violently. Violence circulates from one surface to another, from one space to another, from one body to another, from one space-time to another. History is rewritten through violence, not always as the history of the state-sanctioned practices operating in the name of (in)security, but also as the textures of the body in time and space, a body that is not simply mine, which can never simply be mine, but must also be yours, your skin, your touch. “Struggles,” writes Feldman, “will occur over competing transcriptions of the same body and of different bodies. This contest over adversarial transcripts fractures the body as an ‘organic,’ ‘natural’ object and thus accelerates the body’s subjectivation” (1991, 7). The body cannot operate on “its” own. There is no body (other than the fabulated body of the state) that can operate separately from the chronotopes it creates and crosses. There can be no separation from the body’s marking of an other and the body itself. History is the body. Spacing (espacement) is the body. The body is not political, it is the political instant of space being created in time now.