Feldman writes:
The spatial inscription of practices and power involves physical ﬂows, meta- bolic transactions and transfers—exchanges which connect, separate, dis- tance, and hierarchize one space in relation to another. The command of space further entails the setting aside of places of imaginary representation, eulogized, purifying, or deﬁling spaces that mobilize spectacles of historical transformation. (1991, 9)
This, according to Feldman, “involves the setting up of novel codifying apparatuses such as the reorganization of the senses, mental maps, topo- graphic origin myths, norms of spatial competence, and rites of spatial per- formance” (1991, 9). Space-time is what is at stake here, not of the body, but as the body. It is now that we witness the productive capacities of touch, even if we consider touch linked to a certain violence. Touch crosses space and/as the body, calling forth not only a reciprocity but attesting to space-time as that which does not exist between bodies, but which is formed through the movements of these very bodies. Space-time, understood this way, is the very possibility of a sensory re-articulation of the political: space is no longer reserved for the vocabulary of the nation-state, which cannot understand chronotopes otherwise than as pre-existent striated operations of identity and territory that feed its stultifying imaginary. The state appa- ratus striates space-time in a refusal to acknowledge the continual creation and transformation of the sensing, moving bodies in its midst. Were it to do otherwise, the state would risk losing its perceived hegemony over its body-politic.
According to Nietzsche, there is no difference between the body as a political structure and the political structure as the body (1968, 492). The body is the fractured product of the differential effects of intersecting antagonistic forces. As Deleuze writes, informed by Nietzsche’s comments on the body: “Whether chemical, biological, social or political... any two forces being unequal constitute a body as soon as they enter into a relation” (1977, 80–81). The body assumes not one form but as many forms as there are powers orienting it. “The intersection of forces (political practices) cohere into an economy of the body. The body is a cumulative effect of exchanges between agonistic forces” (Feldman 1991, 177). The body is not simply that which conforms to the state’s grids of intelligibity onto which its politics of interiority and exteriority are transcribed. The body is a point of transaction, of transculture, of disagreement.
The state does not react calmly to such treason. The state continually reproduces its limits by transcribing alterity into a system of self-same bodies