approach toward an other. Touch is a threat even while it creates an open- ing. Touch threatens as it marks the inevitability of its untouchability: I touch you as the one who will always, in some sense, remain untouchable. Your untouchability exists in an economy of violence from which I cannot safely emerge as long as we are in relation. Yet, in relation, we also create worlds through which we redeﬁne violence.
Touch errs. Being in relation is about the experience of erring, which is at the heart of any desire to reach toward. It would be fallacious to argue that the body is always constant in its directionality. A politics of touch must be errant.10 Social consensus is precarious precisely because it rests on an injunction not to err.11 Consensus, as the mechanism for a prescribed democracy ordained within the state system, is the ultimate form of uni- directionality. It embodies a different violence than that of erring toward an other. State violence takes count only of the goal, and not of the process. Consensus ignores the fragility of an erring movement: it pretends that its displacements are always known in advance. The violence of consensus is most hazardous, since it believes it cannot err.12
In a model of consensual politics, the citizen cannot have an unstable body, for that body would challenge the organization of the body-politic. Any unstable body is always eventually disqualiﬁed from state politics. The other, the outside, the homeless, the refugee or the stranger, the sexual “deviant,” none of these bodies “exists” within the realm of social consen- sus. How could they? These are bodies that err from the grids of intelligibil- ity of state politics, these are bodies that resist the national imaginary, bodies without citizenship, without passports, without legitimacy. They are, as Rancière writes, the uncounted, the uncountable. The ultimate violence of the state is precisely this: to allege that it does not err. In its desperate at- tempts to maintain the coherence of its grids of intelligibility, the state’s body-politic attempts to erase all forms of power/knowledge that might alert us to the porosity of its consensual apparatus. The body, every body, and most certainly the “nonexistent” body at the borders of the state, threatens the state’s strict dichotomy between inside and outside. These deviant bodies emphasize the porosity of their mobile, sensing ﬂeshiness. Violence (of the state, against the state) makes the performance of this encounter visible, registering differences in kind.
Reaching out beyond the limit blurs the boundary between law-preserving and law-instituting violence. Law has an interest in a monopoly of violence. The violence it unleashes threatens to lead to its demise and must therefore be kept well concealed within the nation’s practices of securing: every sys-