but believing” (John 20:27). In this scene, we witness once more the bibli- cal relation between touch, presence, absence, faith, and untouchability.
Interdiction of contact is the ﬁrst injunction. When he appears to her, Mary reaches toward Jesus. Asked not to touch, she does not lay her hands on his body. Thomas, who refuses to believe, demands to be allowed to touch Jesus. After laying his hands on Jesus’ body, he calls Jesus his savior. At ﬁrst glance, it would seem that Jesus is touchable only for Thomas, that a certain relation is established between Jesus and Thomas, rather than be- tween Mary and Jesus. It seems to me that something more is at stake. If we think of touch as a reaching-toward that moves in the direction of experi- ence rather than toward a pursuit of knowledge (a means to an end) might it not be Mary—as beﬁts her role as the bearer of touch in the Bible—who in fact engages touchingly toward Jesus? If this is the case, would Thomas— as beﬁts his role as the doubting disciple—not be seen engaging in the act most distant from a politics of touch, that is, in an act of discerning the “truth” through a laying of hands? The injunction not to touch in the noli me tangere scene is perhaps about delimiting the political and ethical difference between reaching-toward and the amassing of pre-deﬁnable knowledge.
“Do not touch me” signals a potential danger. It is an admonition that touches at the core. “Do not touch me” announces an immediate relation- ship between touch and untouchability, signaling not necessarily that “I am untouchable” but emphasizing the imperative that for touch to alter politi- cal and ethical vistas, knowledge must be arrived at through experience rather than “truth.” “Do not touch me” touches not on a “fact” of untouch- ability, but on the impossibility of a ﬁnal reaching toward that would “know” through touch. “Do not touch me” evokes the inﬁnite separation between your ﬁnality and my ﬁnality. You cannot touch me unless you register that I will remain untouchable. To touch the untouchable (to hold my untoucha- bility captive) would be to subsume me into your narrative of presence. What Jesus says to Mary is: I am here, untouchable, virtually reachable.
Touch, untouchability, is evoked as the foundational absence that lurks in each potential relation. An impenetrable distance remains between me and you, a distance exposed by my desire to reach toward you, to engage in a politics of touch. Incommensurable, this politics signals your difference not from me per se, but from any narrative that would attempt to bridge the impossible distance between our bodies. This is the originary distance of relation. Relation exceeds self and other, expressing the desire not to seek a commonality in the particularities that differentiate us but to engage