the difference as the untouchability that will forever draw me outside my “self.” Untouchable, I realize that I have no self, that I exist in relation, that I am in relation to my own untouchability. My body is not One.
Over and over in the Bible, Jesus is touched and his touch heals. This touch is a laying of hands,14 an ingestion of an other not unlike the swal- lowing of his body in the form of the host. Only once does Jesus ask not to be touched: when he returns to his grace and Mary reaches toward him. This moment of touch/untouchability takes place when Mary is faced with a different (incarnated) body. Jesus’ resurrection alters the status of touch. He seems to say: “Do not touch me, do not restrain me, do not think you can catch me or reach me, for I am leaving for the Father, that is to say, again and always toward death’s power, and I am leaving from death to death, I am melting into my nocturnal lustre on this spring morning” (Nancy 2003, 31). Reach out but do not touch. Believe in the untouchability that always precedes and exceeds our relation. Have faith.
Strange inconsistency between the desire to touch and the injunction to have faith? Faith precedes the Fall. Into experience is out of faith. Is this al- ways the case? Must God remain untouchable? According to Michael Hardt, incarnation is abandonment to the ﬂesh: “The self-emptying or keno- sis of Christ, the evacuation of the transcendental, is the afﬁrmation of the plenitude of the material, the fullness of the ﬂesh” (2002, 78). Incarnation is the body-ﬂesh becoming touchable/untouchable at the nexus between the inﬁnite and the eternal, the metamorphosis of the modalities of existence. Incarnation as becoming-ﬂesh is not the eternalization of the untouchable but the touchability of the eternal. “Transcendence, the condition of possi- bility of being, should not be imagined as above or below the material—it dwells, rather, precisely at its very surface” (Hardt 2002, 79). Jesus incarnate appears to exclaim that there is no mediation necessary between the tran- scendent and the immanent. Transcendence and immanence are compli- mentary, they exist in the experience of the body of Jesus, in its immanent un/touchability. The difference is that here touch no longer signiﬁes a “pos- session” of the body as in the earlier healing narratives, but instead evokes a relation to the immanence of experience.
Senses are awakened between Jesus and Mary in the noli me tangere scene. Mary reaches toward Jesus and registers his voice. She makes con- tact with him, not by touching him, but by accepting his untouchability. Thomas does not make contact. For Thomas, Jesus must be present. Jesus must be touched in order to conﬁrm the materiality of his ﬂesh. Touch is