sidelined with knowledge here, with reason. For Mary, it is Jesus’ imminent absence that connects him to her. Presence as absence is the experience of touch. Touch is of the body, actual but virtual; it is the experience of the body’s immanence, of its ability to re-generate, to re-appear differently. Mary locates not the body of Christ but the trace of his passing and the promise of his return.
Touch is not a conﬁrmation, not an accomplishment, Jesus seems to say. Touch is reaching toward ﬂesh, but not as proof of presence. Touch is the promise that you can reach again and ﬁnd me on the threshold of your senses. “The exposed ﬂesh does not reveal a secret self that had been hid- den, but rather dissolves any self that could be apprehended. We not only have nothing left to hide, we no longer present any separate thing for the eyes to grasp. We become imperceptible” (Hardt 2002, 80). Jesus exposes himself in relation (to Mary, to Thomas, to God) on a positive logic of ema- nation. Materiality is intensiﬁed. Your touch goes right through me because there is no “me.” I am not eternal, I am eternally material. Material, I am the metamorphosing body, exposing my-selves to you, to your touch that never quite adheres, that never quite reaches the one I am not yet, the one I will never quite become. “Flesh is the condition of possibility of the qual- ities of the world, but it is never contained within or deﬁned by those quali- ties. In this sense it is both a superﬁcial foundation and an immanent tran- scendence—alien to any dialectic of reality and appearance, or depth and surface” (Hardt 2002, 83).
I reach toward your mystery, the alchemy of your ﬂesh, the untouchabil- ity of the experience that we will become as we alter space-time together. Perhaps this explains the proliferation of paintings of the noli me tangere scene.15 These paintings, which expose a certain unknowability in the rela- tion between Jesus and Mary Magdalene, focus in different and interesting ways on the hands. In some cases, hands connote a separation, in some a desire to touch, a reaching-toward, a sexual longing, a prayer, a benediction, a warning. There is no consensus on the nature of the touch that takes place. Touch and undecidability go hand in hand. Mary understands the untouchability of touch. Mary reaches toward this untouchability not seek- ing truth, nor the Word, but the con-tact that will engage her in a relation to the  unknowable  she  already  knows  well.  As  Nancy  writes,  “Mary- Magdalene becomes a saint par excellence because she holds herself at the point where the touch of sense is identical to its retreat” (Nancy 2003, 72). Genesis and the noli me tangere episode share an engagement with the