threat and potential violence of touch. In Genesis, the threat is that touch will propel Adam and Eve out of the garden into experience. In the noli me tangere episode, the threat is more complex: if Mary touches Jesus, she rele- gates her faith to the promise of corporeal presence. If Mary does not touch Jesus, she accepts the incorporeality of touch as a potential violence toward the concept of presence. Thomas does touch Jesus, but only to justify his faith. Mary, on an other hand, accepts that Jesus is no longer touchable as a healer but must be reached-toward differently. Jesus is thus relegated to the unknowability of presence as absence, and touch to a gesture in passing. Jesus is both of the earth (having fallen toward touch) and of the heavens (moving toward a Godliness that would render him permanently untouch- able). The ﬁgure who remains most interesting in relation to touch is Mary. “It is a good thing not to touch a woman,” writes Paul (1 Cor. 7:1).
Gregg Lambert suggests that the body of woman in the early Christian com- munity marks “the site of touching and the fear of being touched,... the site of this extreme contradiction... between a body that is open to the touch and a body that is determined by the prohibition against touching” (2004, 4).16 Mary Magdalene is no exception. In Mark 16:1, it is reported that Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James went to the tomb with spices to anoint the body of Jesus. Against all restrictions around touch, these women go to the grave to touch and handle a corpse.
Despite echoes to the contrary voiced in The Gospel of Mary Magda- lene,17 Mary Magdalene remains the biblical embodiment of ﬂesh and of the carnal body in the Hebrew Bible. It is in the shadow of her ﬂeshy body that Jesus reveals himself. It is with her that Jesus speaks of touch. It is toward her that Jesus becomes untouchable. It is alongside her that Jesus circum- vents the violence of touch. Mary is touch embodied; she is the woman who reaches toward touch as untouchability. She is the body that opens itself toward the body of Jesus, allowing him to take leave, allowing him to take a place within her, to become her. It is Mary who is asked to relay the Gospel; it is Mary who is asked to have faith that to touch is always to reach toward untouchability. It is Mary who discerns what is at stake in the complicated politics of touch at work in the Bible. As Nancy writes, “[t]his violent paradox is not to be resolved, it remains the location of a gap as inti- mate as it is irreducible: do not touch me.” Mary is the incarnation of this interval, the body of woman who accepts the violence inherent in the deci- sion to touch or not to touch, who lives the complexity of the engagement with the unknowable, the indeﬁnable.