deﬁned as “windows” (Europe 3:1,5) rather than surfaces, as openings that liberate the vast realms of experience. The window in Blake is not a trans- parent surface through which one gazes. It is an opening which exposes the world in all of its inconsistencies. Through the window, bodies move and senses are unleashed.
In Blake, the senses are not limited to speciﬁc organs. The senses are rela- tional. The senses traverse space unrestricted, forever growing to encompass the expansive limits of an extended body. The more majestic the body, the larger the senses and the wider their capacities. Senses move the body beyond itself, inciting it to become more than its organs, calling forth a Body without Organs.19 “A vast Spine writh’d in torment / Upon the winds’” (9:37–38). This reference to Urizen’s body signals an intensiﬁed movement through space, more and less than the sum of its senses. “Though all... parts, belong to the same body, some are insigniﬁcant in the relation to the landscape, and some proportionately large” (Connolly 2002b, 89). A sense of exposure is tangible in Urizen’s description—veins, nerves, inner organs, and ﬁbers are exposed to the vastness: “Urizen is one with his envi- ronment as a cosmic man: there is no skin to make a border between him- self and his world” (Connolly 2002b, 90).
Parts of Urizen’s body grow out of themselves. Eyes shoot out from the brain; ears spiral from the orbs of vision. The senses escape the common organization of the body even as they transform it, ﬂuidly reconnecting to bodies spaced and timed elsewhere. The body is shackled, but even so, the senses defy organization. Tristanne Connolly writes: “Blake’s descriptions of the metamorphosis of the sense organs make it clear that the body we know is the result of the transformation” (2002b, 78). When the inhabitants of Urizen’s world endure changes, their senses also change: “their eyes / Grew small like the eyes of man” (23:35–36). Space and time are qualitatively altered alongside shifts in the dimensions of the senses. “The sense organs seem to metamorphose swiftly, but each change occurs as an age passes over” (Connolly 2002b, 89).
Although the senses are often described individually in Blake’s poems, they are synesthetically joined in the body’s passionate participation in experience. They are not passive. The senses move the body toward a world that expands exponentially given the opportunity to work supplementarily in deﬁance of the dichotomies dictated by a biblical text that continues to preach the primary difference between good and evil. Passivity brings forth shrink- age of the senses as they attempt to constrain themselves to the individual