body. In passivity senses are reduced, all but touch, which “is capable of rousing the greatest ecstasy [and] admits man into Eternity; therefore it is not ‘dead,’ like an other senses, but only cursed” (Damon 1971, 408; in Vinge 1975).
The Marriage of Heaven and Hell is a series of plates that explores in detail the shortcomings of narratives that seek to dichotomize experience. Con- traries prevail, giving rise to the concepts of good and evil. “Good is the pas- sive that obeys Reason. Evil is the active springing from Energy / Good is Heaven. Evil is Hell” (Blake 1975, 3, xvi). As long as good and evil are opposed, the stakes are clear and God’s word—the sovereign voice—takes charge over insensate bodies. But perhaps good and evil are not opposed, warns Blake in The Marriage of Heaven and Hell, going on to point out the many errors found in the Bible. Among them is the dichotomy between body and soul, wherein evil energy stems from the body and good reason is of the soul.
To restrain desire—to  not reach toward an other—is to be weak. Only the weak are restrained. Desire is energy and “[e]nergy is eternal delight” (Blake 1975, 4, xvi). Desire attracts the devil: “When I came home: on the abyss of the ﬁve senses, where a ﬂat sided steep frowns over the present world, I saw a mighty Devil forded in black clouds” (1975, 6–7, xvii). Desire extends the senses and the senses promise experience, but with experience comes temptation. The choice is violent, but not to choose is to remain passive and to allow oneself to be governed. Temptations are to be lived, to be experienced: “The road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom. / Prudence is a rich ugly old maid courted by Incapacity” (1975, 7, xviii). To live is to touch the world. Time is at stake, “Eternity is in love with the productions of time.” With time, as my body changes, my senses become more acute and my life becomes more complex. To live is to time space and space time, unleashing the energies of the sensing and transforming bodies in movement. To live sensually is to discover the inﬁnite in all things and to be per- suaded by our beliefs. Nothing can be proven; there is no truth. Sensual enjoyment leads to eternity, an eternity that exists in ﬁnitude, analogous, perhaps, to Nietzsche’s concept of eternal recurrence. Knowledge is corro- sive, printed onto a surface which always resists. Perception must be cleansed. Only the senses offer the window onto a ﬁnitude replete with experience. The printing house becomes the location for the Word, a Word that does not uphold the voice of the sovereign but seeks instead to etch corrosively on opaque metals and transfer its remains onto translucent paper. Blake’s word transforms experience by incorporating the sensual capacities of sens-