performs such essential tasks that it is rarely, if ever, “busy.” The skin re- mains quiet in order “to increase its capacity to learn, to become habituated to codes that cannot be interfered with under any conditions” (Montagu 1971, 152). The vibrotactile or electrotactile signals of the skin cannot be shut out, nor can the skin close its eyes or ears or hold its breath. Even in sleep, the skin remains the most alert of the organs, and it is the ﬁrst to recover upon awakening.
Touch is intimately linked to the skin. The skin that touches and is touched is continually rebuilding itself from the outer to the innermost lay- ers. To reach toward skin through touch is to reach toward that which is in a continued state of (dis)integration and (dis)appearance. Skin gives us a clue to the untouchability of the body. If we locate skin as the receptor that never quite remains its-self, we can begin to appreciate the ways in which touch can never be more than a reaching-toward the untouchable. In addi- tion to its regenerative qualities, there is also the issue of forgetting: if we want touch to last, we must touch again, lest the skin “forget” the touch we can feel but momentarily. When we reach toward to touch, we reach toward that which is in-formation or trans-formation. This reaching-toward is an engendering that qualitatively alters the relation between being and be- coming, alerting us to the potential variables that combine to give us a clue as to “what a body can do.”1
What a body can do is a question of engendering. One way of activating this concept is through an exploration of the effects of language, as does Judith Butler in Bodies That Matter:
The body posited as prior to the sign, is always posited or signiﬁed as prior. This signiﬁcation produces as an effect of its own procedure the very body that it nevertheless and simultaneously claims to discover as that which precedes its own action. If the body signiﬁed as prior to signiﬁcation is an effect of signiﬁ- cation, then the mimetic or representational status of language, which claims that signs follow bodies as their necessary mirrors, is not mimetic at all. On the contrary, it is productive, constitutive, one might even argue performative, inasmuch as this signifying act delimits and contours the body that it claims to ﬁnd prior to any and all signiﬁcation.
This is not to say that the materiality of bodies is simply and only a linguistic effect which is reducible to a set of signiﬁers. Such a distinction overlooks the materiality of the signiﬁer itself. Such an account also fails to understand materiality as that which is bound up with signiﬁcation from the start; to think through the indissolubility of materiality and signiﬁcation is  no easy matter. To posit by way of language a materiality outside of language is still to posit that materiality, and the materiality so posited will retain that positing as its constitutive condition. (1993, 30)