Language plays a key role in the sexing (and de-sexing) of bodies, organiz- ing the domain of signiﬁcability or intelligibility. The materiality of the sign is what is at stake for Butler: it is through materiality that she is capable of positing bodies as adjacent to linguistic signiﬁcation. In this chapter, I will expand on this notion of materiality, suggesting that what a body can do exceeds linguistic signiﬁcation. A politics of touch ampliﬁed through the prism of engendering asks questions concerning gender that broaden the problematic initiated by Butler in Bodies That Matter. While I do not dis- pute the fact that language is central to politics,2 my focus here will be on the ways in which bodies touch at language’s sensual limits. Remaining concerned with the dynamics of relation, I will focus mainly on the ways in which touch exceeds language’s signiﬁcability.
If politics is understood conventionally as that which renders some bodies legitimate in the name of and through language, a politics of touch can be thought as that which both supports the political and challenges it. In this sense, touch and language perform parallel operations. Yet there is something about the inability to coherently regulate the senses (in this case, touch) that offers the potential for reaching out even beyond words to expose the supple limits of the body.
A politics of touch suggests that one way in which bodies resist norma- tive politics such as those of the nation-state is through reaching across the boundaries imposed by the body-politic. This crossing does not necessarily inaugurate a difference in the political structures at hand, but it does en- gender an adjacent body, a supplementarity, an individuation3 that poten- tially stands in the way of pre-constituted organizations of bodies. The effect of this is by no means utopian: the more complex the bodies at hand, the ﬁrmer the imposition of the norms of the governing body-politic. Nonetheless, engenderings brought forth through a politics of touch open the way to a wider selection of bodies, allowing us to explore them in all of their engendered and engendering matter-forms.
I place touch at the fore to prevent myself from falling into the trap of ﬁxing bodies as simple objects of thought. As Butler writes in another con- text, “this moving beyond their own boundaries, a movement of boundary itself, [is] quite central to what bodies ‘are’” (1993, ix). Gender is only part of what differentiates bodies, and cultural determinism does have a tendency to be the main tool in helping us understand the constitutive status of these differentiations. What Butler does in Bodies That Matter is place construc- tion as the constitutive element of the performativity of gendered bodies.