She asks how constraints such as sex “not only produce the domain of in- telligible bodies, but produce as well a domain of unthinkable, abject and unliveable bodies” (1993, xi). Butler’s argument concerns the manner in which the materiality of sex is forcibly produced. She wants to know how bodies are materialized as “sexed,” and how and why certain bodies come to matter. Butler focuses on sex as part of a regulative practice that produces the bodies it governs. The materialization of sex takes place (or fails to) through highly regulated practices.
For Butler, the sexing of bodies is a process that takes place through the (political) regulations of norms established in and through language. These norms regulate how bodies are represented, where our bodies ﬁt into the spectrum of diversity and differentiation, and, I would add, how our bodies are touched and touching. Since touch always implies a reaching toward an other who must always remain untouchable, touch can be considered as largely non-normative, at least in the ﬁrst instance. Touch manifests itself as material in an incomplete process of materialization. Materialization cannot be “completed” through touch since touch necessitates a return that will al- ways in some sense destabilize its initial commitment toward an other. Given the fact that, as Butler writes, “bodies never quite comply with the norms by which their materialization is compelled” (1993, 2), touch could be said to operate as one of the many potential resistances to the normative process at the heart of materialization, bringing to the fore the complexities within the form-matter matrix on which the differentiation of bodies depends.
Touch is performative in the sense that it exposes the challenges the excessive body (the body in excess of its-self) calls forth within the domain of cultural intelligibility. When I touch you, I re-place both you and myself within the governing system of the body-politic, drawing to our attention the limit-space between your skin, my skin, and the world. This act of engen- dering recasts the matter of bodies as well as their form. This happens through a “force ﬁeld” which is released in the act of reaching-toward that qualita- tively alters the space and time in the relation between bodies. This ﬁeld of forces is as concrete as it is virtual. As a practice of relation, touch reaches toward an exposition of matter and form as processual states. When I reach to touch you, I touch not the you who is ﬁxed in space as pre-orchestrated matter/form. I touch the you that you will become in response to my reach- ing toward. Our bodies are at once indissociable and in excess of the regula- tory norms that govern their materialization and the signiﬁcation of these material effects.