You may argue: “Touching, you can not choose not to reach toward a dif- ferentiation with which you cannot cope. Does it not happen that you do not want to touch a body because it is foreign, raced, gendered, etc.? Or, inversely, when you do touch a body that you consider different, do you not touch that body in its perceived ﬁxity, as gendered, as ethnic? Do you not touch hier- archically, emphasizing your position as the one who chooses to touch?” Certainly, one of the shortcomings of touch as a paradigm to a changing notion of politics is that we can touch one another in view of the norms by which we identify one another as individual rather than individuating bodies. Argentine tango is an interesting example of this.
Most of the time, in Argentine tango, a man leads a woman onto the dance ﬂoor. The man offers his body and the woman enters into the embrace, the closeness determined by the limits of their desire for intimacy or the sheer strength of his hold. In this gendered moment, she knows herself as the woman, him as the man. He is leading; she is following. If they are danc- ing in close embrace, the touching surface between the man and the woman extends from the head all the way to the upper or mid-chest, sometimes also continuing along the legs. Within this closeness, a dance is negotiated that is initiated by the leader and responded to by the follower. But as the move- ment begins to incite the dance to take form and the bodies to engage mate- rially with their improvised displacements, we realize that the exchange is far more reciprocal than it ﬁrst appears to be: the leader is also following the follower. Since the dance is always improvised, leader and follower not only dance together but listen intently to each other’s bodies. Touch functions here as a medium of open-ended exchange: I respond not to your touch as such but to the potentiality your movement incites within my body. I respond to our reciprocal reaching-toward. If this touch is indeed approached rela- tionally, chances are the couple will dance beautifully together. Body to body, they will space time and time space. If not, it is likely that they will have difﬁculty locating one another.
This sharing of touch in Argentine tango can also cross heterosexualized gender boundaries which makes it potentially all the more compelling. In the early years of tango, mainly due to the extreme lack of women in Buenos Aires and the stark competition between men, men danced with one another and perfected their tango before they had the opportunity to dance with a woman. Today, especially in Northern Europe, more and more women lead other women (or men), and it is not unusual to see two men dancing together. When Argentine tango shifts into this zone, a politics of touch