can take place that challenges the strict boundaries of gender. This happens through a conceptual repositioning of the relation between bodies, which, in turn, alters the qualitative composition of matter-form. Now, the “body” of the leader is no longer composed solely of stereotypical “male” attributes (a macho posture, a sense of control), nor is the follower constrained to stereotypical “feminine” traits (a sexy demeanor, a fairy-like lightness). The ritual of tango as it is often popularized begins to dissolve. Bodies begin to morph. This mutation qualitatively alters the relation between form and mat- ter in these engendering bodies, investing them with new qualities. These new qualities in turn alter the relation between the bodies, modifying their potential movement. As the bodies qualitatively metamorphose, so does the relation between the form and matter of these bodies. At the physical level, this may be noticed in a gesture, a posture, a hold, a glance. At the qualitative level, this may take the form of a different sense of the ground, a connection, a sense of surprise that lead both the leader and the follower to wonder where the movement is coming from. Now the leader is no longer ﬁrst identiﬁed as the physical incorporation of masculinity, but perhaps as a body of intensity, speed, precision, caring. The follower is no longer simply following but emanating a movement of her own that calls forth engage- ment, creativity, joy. These qualities expose a qualitative alteration in the relation of form to matter and matter to form.
Tango that bends gender afﬁliations demonstrates how normative dis- courses can be subverted, in this case through a reaching-toward enacted through shared touch that produces inﬁnite variations of movement. Of course, tango can be as regulated as any other normative discourse: tango testiﬁes once more to how touch can be simultaneously prescriptive and creative. The normative aspect of touch is constrained to an ontologiza- tion of touch where “I touch you” inscribes “I” and “you” as forms of Being rather than becoming. On the other hand, touch as a concept that implies a reaching-toward is not ontological but ontogenetic. Reaching-toward, quali- tative changes are expressed in and through the bodies in relation. These are qualities of movement rather than properties of Being. Touch as a reaching- toward is not a question of Being. It is a question of becoming. Ontogenetic, touch is incorporeal, it is always beyond its-self, equal to its emergence. Haunted by a becoming that remains as virtual as it is concrete, tango dances to the music of the next beat, a movement yet to come, a space-time to be re-invented, again. Tango bodies reaching toward one another are haunted by their potential to become.4