Gender
While gender subsists within the term “engendering,” it is not etymologically located within its deﬁnition. “Engender” stems from the Middle English engendren, from Middle French engendrer, from Latin ingenerare, from in- + generare, to generate, dating back to the fourteenth century. To engender is to undertake a reworking of form. To engender is to potentialize matter. Engendering involves potentiality at its most fertile: it calls forth the link between the incorporeal and the material, between the virtual and the ac- tual. Engendering takes place in the magic moment between potentiality and actuality, where what is exposed is the actuality of the virtual and the virtuality of the actual. In this eventful moment, bodies morphing toward new forms of matter qualitatively become more than them-selves.
Gilbert Simondon’s work is a rich engagement with the complexity of engendering matter and form. Individuation is the term he gives to the process through which potentiality is engendered. For Simondon, individuation implies a leaving-behind of the concept of the individual as the pre-organized sum of stable form and inert matter. Identity is exposed by individuation as a moment in a process that expands far beyond the bounds of a strict cate- gory one might call the “self.” Individuation is conceptualized as a vehicle that allows being to become, not as matter or form or substance, but as a tensile system, oversaturated with its own potential. Individuation has not yet been adequately thought, Simondon suggests, because a sole form of equi- librium has been foregrounded that has privileged stability over metastability. Metastability is linked to individuation. Whereas stability refers to a system in equilibrium, metastability speaks of a system that is far from equilibrium5 (but precariously stable), a system through which potential energy is unleashed. Individuation allows us to explore relation as a becoming that is far-from- equilibrium, that can be modiﬁed by potential energy. This potential energy, Simondon suggests, emerges through matter and form, emanating from a level where matter and form are not yet distinct.
A politics of touch is composed of engendered and engendering bodies. To engender is to explore the potentialities of form and matter at the level of individuations rather than identities. To engender is to reach toward bodies that are not pre-deﬁned as gendered, not pre-constituted within static representations that beﬁt the systems in which they operate. Engendering bodies are bodies that move, that metamorphose always in relation to their environments and to one another. Engendering bodies are relational vectors