that space time and time space in an effort to re-locate themselves within systems of mutation.
Engenderings are metastable systems. Relation occurs not between already-produced entities or individuals but as an aspect internal to the sys- tem of individuation itself: relation is constitutive of engendering. Engen- derings are bodies in-formation. In-formation does not imply a pre-organized system one superimposes onto matter, but form in a state of disappearance. Being in-formation suggests that form is not a given but a tension between disparate possibilities where becoming precedes Being. This occurs through the process of individuation: as my body engenders, my matter (my energetic potential) is in-formed by a shell that never quite contains the process.
Individuation begins at the cellular level: “bacteria are not really indi- viduals so much as part of a single global superorganism, responding to changed environmental conditions not by speciating but by excreting and incorporating useful genes from their well-endowed neighbours and then rampantly multiplying” (Margulis and Sagan 1997, 55). Within the Darwin- ian and neo-Darwinian frameworks, individual differences are at the core of natural selection. Lynn Margulis disputes this claim, suggesting that rather than the individual, symbiosis is at the heart of evolution. Symbiosis as deﬁned by Margulis suggests a process of individuation. Individuation pro- duces individuation, not individuals. To think of evolution as a process of engendering is to begin to challenge the Darwinian and neo-Darwinian evolutionary canon that continues to privilege individuals over individua- tions, genders over engenderings, stable and inert matter and form over composite exfoliating multiplicities.
Margulis contends that humans have not simply evolved from primates or other mammals, but from a long line of progenitors that can be traced back to the ﬁrst bacteria. Human bodies are composites of thousands of mil- lions of years of interaction among highly responsive microbes. Symbiosis is the term Margulis gives this process of composition.6 Although Margulis’s work has, in large part, been accepted into mainstream molecular biology,7 she admits that “the idea that new species arise from symbiotic mergers among members of old ones is still not even discussed in polite scientiﬁc society” (Margulis 1998, 6).
Margulis deﬁnes symbiogenesis as “an evolutionary change by the inheri- tance of acquired gene sets” (1998, 9) wherein living beings defy neat deﬁni- tion. The symbiotic world individuates violently, passionately, indifferently, ﬁghting, feeding, mating, dancing, dying. Generating novelty, symbiogenesis