brings together different life forms through matings that are often incorpora- tions. This is not a one-to-one procedure whereby individuals can be delin- eated within an economically stable system. This process is metastable. Fixed individuality is a concept that cannot exist within a symbiosis that causes complex alterations in the form-matter relation. Symbiogenesis brings together life forms that are “even more unlike than their ‘unlike’ parents” (Margulis 1998, 9). These individuations become larger, more complex uni- ties. Individuations become compositions that become populations that become multi-unit symbiotic systems.
“Now as throughout Earth’s history, living associations form and dis- solve. Symbioses, both stable and ephemeral, prevail” (Margulis 1998, 12). Symbioses call forth surprising engenderings. These engenderings mark all kinds of transformations. They permit the ontogenesis of the rigidity of gen- der identities through the construction and reconstruction of forms and functions of reproduction. Positing engendering as my point of departure, what I seek to explore is how human sex practices (and adjacent politics of gender identity) are embedded in our historical and cultural roots8 as mementos to practices of segregation, imposed difference, essential traits. Mind-body dualisms ﬁgure prominently in the naturalization of discourses of gender identity, most often re-entrapping the body in pre-established conﬁgurations overdetermined by linguistic, political, and evolutionary sig- niﬁcation. “The continuous displacement of the signiﬁer ‘sex’ does not suc- ceed in detaching feminine desire from ﬁxed nature as it fails to challenge the fundamental problematic of the body, biological identity, the impera- tive of sexual procreation and ultimately the metaphysical conception of matter (ﬁxed, stable nature, where matter is inert)” (Parisi 2004, 10). The concept of engendering invites us to think the project of gendering bodies differently, emphasizing the manner in which bodies individuate, evolving into forms that highlight the nonlinear dynamics and unpredictable poten- tial of matter’s trans-formations.
Engenderings are crossings-over of matter-form from differing realms, be they political, technological, or biological. “The mutations of a body are not predetermined by a given ideal or an infrastructure deﬁning the realm of biological possibilities of a body.... [T]hese mutations designate the abstract or virtual operations of matter” (Parisi 2004, 14). Potential leads to actualization. Engenderings are actualizations of morphing body-mutations. Within each engendering is a virtual form. Actualization through engen- dering does not derive from pre-determined (already-formed) individuals: it incorporates the formation of new body-conﬁgurations.