Form suggests an organizational shift in the system. When matter is po- tentialized into a given form, a phase shift occurs. This phase shift dephases the body-as-identity, exposing the body to the effects of its reaching toward: the body becomes the multiplicity of its becoming and its having-become. Bodies are as incorporeal as they are in-formed. By incorporeal I do not mean less real. On the contrary: the body becomes more than real, more than its envelope, more than the space-time of its pre-locatedness. It is in this sense that engenderings are “machinic”:9 engenderings entail the merg- ing of different bodies of production. The body is machinic in the sense that it is plural and unpredictable, evolving always through movements that are contingent on environments  and  (re)combinations.  The  dissolution and symbiosis of forms and functions is a necessary and integral part of any concept of creative evolution. Production comes into contact with repro- duction through the machinic assemblage that connects a body to biophysi- cal, biocultural, and biodigital organizations of sex. Engenderings are not stable renderings of bodies-as-machines. Engenderings call forth bodies, inciting them to recombine.
Recombinations involve transductions. In genetics, transductions refer to the transfer by a bacteriophage10 of genetic material from one bacterium to another. Simondon uses transduction to convey the idea of reaching- toward or leading across toward dynamic form. Transductions suggest a de- phasing in the system through which new individuations emerge. Individu- ations are multilayered processes of engendering whereby the activity of becoming extends in multiple directions beyond unity and identity. Trans- duction can be conceptualized as the relation between individuations through which composite bodies are engendered. Transduction does not happen to the body. Transduction is of the body, operational constitutively within its systems of in-formation. Transduction may quantitatively alter matter and form, but it is more likely that it will not, instead activating matter and form toward qualitative individuations. Bodies will become other not in their carapaces but in their potentialities. “[T]o think the transduc- tive operation that is the foundation for the various levels of individuation, the notion of form is insufﬁcient” (Simondon 1995, 33). Transductively, form becomes in-formation. This supposes the existence of a system in a meta- stable state that is open to individuation. Ontogenesis, not ontology.
Classiﬁcations presuppose hierarchical relationships. In positing gender as a principle of strict differentiation, form is placed onto matter in a way that calls forth a complete individual rather than an individuation. Engen- dering is a reaching toward matter-form that explores the manner in which