The alliance between reproduction and individual difference is at the heart of Darwin’s theory of “modiﬁcation and descent” in which every indi- vidual being is considered as part of a genealogy of beings open to variations through breeding and species intercrossing. In this model, individual differ- ences are slight modiﬁcations of a common pool of variations preserved through adaptation and sexual mating. Natural selection focuses on the stability of a species. Sexual mating within this system guarantees the preservation of a lineage (branching phylogeny). Difference is considered a necessary tool for survival but only insofar as that divergence remains located within the spectrum of adaptation and transmission of variation. Meiotic sex, understood as sexual reproduction by two (usually male-female) parties, preserves variations and sustains the principle of inheritance.13 This line of evolutionary thought—extending from Darwin to neo-Darwinism—argues that external factors are not direct causes of changes inheritable through ﬁlial generation. Genetic information is passed on unidirectionally, includ- ing feedback loops between environments and genders. This suggests that the potential for variation is built into the organism as part of its heritage, afﬁrming that modiﬁcation is safely contained within the germ-plasm. One implication of Darwinian and neo-Darwinian thought is that sexed differ- ence remains dependent on meiosis or sexual reproduction.
Departing from Darwinian and neo-Darwinian models that privilege sex- ual reproduction through heterosexual coupling as experienced by most animals and plants (meiotic sex), Margulis focuses on symbiosis, arguing that it is symbiosis that made our kind of reproductive sex (meiosis) possi- ble. Symbiosis challenges the view that evolution is a competition among individuals where natural selection weeds out the weak individuals, leaving only the strong ones to survive. SET (Serial Endosymbiotic Theory) argues that the concept of the “individual” is misleading since, while the cells that come together to make a whole may be genetically related, more often “the ‘individual’ is composed of fused elements that are genetically distinct” (Margulis and Sagan 1997, 111).
Endosymbiosis challenges the narrowness of Darwinian and neo- Darwinian thought, suggesting a way to think engendering on a symbiotic level. Research on endosymbiosis explores the Archean Eon, 3,900 million years ago, when bacteria (nonrespiring membrane-bounded cells) invented genetic engineering as a mode of sex and reproduction (cloning). A simpliﬁed account would go something like this: First, a sulphur and heat-loving bac- terium (called a fermenting “archaebacterium” or “thermoacidophil”) merged with a swimming bacterium. This symbiotic merger became the nucleoplasm