that is the basic substance of the ancestors of animal, plant, and fungal cells. Oxygen was toxic to these bacteria. With the spreading of oxygen, anaerobic bacteria merged with respiring bacteria. This symbiotic linkage was characterized by one bacterium entering an other, growing and repro- ducing (cloning) in it forever. Microbial bodies were thus forced to co-adapt through parallel processes of communication and reproduction due to the imminent pressures of the environment. These bacteria reproduced primar- ily through mitosis.14 Larger, more complex cells evolved.
Margulis and Sagan emphasize that “the process of interiorization is speciﬁc to cellular life itself, which preserves and increases an interior order only by adding to the ‘disorder of the external world’” (1995, 26). These three-way symbiotic mergers ingested but failed to digest bright green pho- tosynthetic bacteria. Eventually, the green bacteria became chloroplasts. This ﬁnal merger led to the ancestors of all plant life today, swimming green algae.
SET’s central idea is that “extra genes in the cytoplasm of plant, animal and other nucleated cells are not ‘naked genes’; rather, they originated as bacterial genes” (Margulis 1998, 37).15 Of primary concern here is not simply the biological trajectory from ingestion to mitosis (cell division) through meiosis (two-parent sexual reproduction) but how symbiosis challenges the concept of individual selection essential to Darwinian and neo-Darwinian theories of evolution. In the Darwinian and neo-Darwinian literature, meiotic sex is foregrounded as the primary tool for the reproduction of the species. The Darwinian and neo-Darwinian understanding of sex and repro- duction relies on scarcity, effort, and gratiﬁcation. However, meiotic sex, according to endosymbiosis, is not necessarily the most successful form of reproduction. As Margulis and Sagan write, meiotic sex constitutes “a balanc- ing act between our existence as bodies with two sets of chromosomes that inevitably die, and sex cells made by these bodies with one set of chromo- somes which enjoy the possibility of continued life in the next generation” (1997, 83).
Fixed genders and sexually maintained species only began evolving about a billion years ago. Meiotic sex evolved in those protoctists that had already evolved by bacterial sex (both transgenically and symbiotically). “Neither plant nor animal appeared on Earth until bacteria had undergone at least 2000 million years of chemical and social evolution” (Margulis 1998, 56). All life has direct ancestry among bacteria: we are massive colonies of micro- organisms. Human bodies are open, growing systems. Our boundaries are continually changing.