In bacteria, under conditions that necessitate meiotic sex, a “gender” trans- formation of the cell occurs that calls forth not two genders but dozens of complimentary genders that attract each other. Sexual reproduction can therefore be understood as an open system that has evolved many times on this planet: “the second Law of Thermodynamics, rather than sex itself, is the physical basis of our evolutionary focus on copulation and sex acts”16 (Margulis and Sagan 1997, 220). The link between sex and reproduction is contingent. Engenderings may cause genderings, but it is just as likely that they will individuate to create less predictable outcomes. Genderings are but one possible consequence of engenderings: engenderings create the poten- tial for relations that remain unthinkable, individuating toward metastabil- ity in directions we can but begin to reach toward.
Cellular biology provides a vocabulary through which we can learn to identify how genders are codiﬁed through evolutionary practices. The adop- tion of one evolutionary model over an other may lead us to think that genders are already deﬁned as concrete processes of chromosomal truth. Endosymbiosis alerts us to ways in which selection happens on another level entirely, focusing not on gendered practices of selection as a primary criterion for reproduction, but on symbiotic engenderings. An engagement with this literature may allow us to better locate the ways in which gen- dered practices are taken for granted in everyday life.
Evolution is violent, all-consuming, world-altering. The constitutive violence that exists at the heart of engenderings is always operative in the relation between matter and form. Violence happens at all levels: this is a lesson cellular biology teaches us. Engenderings are not straightforward. Alterations cause mutations. Mutations cause infestations. Infestations be- come populations. But this is a violence at the level of individuation, not identity. Violence of individuation creates potential energy. Violence here operates as a denominator for instability: systems of individuation are volatile. Matter and form interact in an exchange that is not based on individual equality. Engenderings take form in ways that must always remain unpre- dictable, contingent on the environments through which they individuate. Margulis and Fester write: