Interlude
The dance ﬂoor is crowded. I enter through an unmarked door in a strange city. I have never been here before, but I recognize the scene. Lights are dimmed, in the far corner I observe the DJ, the bar is surrounded by people sipping their drinks with their eyes on the dance ﬂoor. A few people are engaged in conversation. I look for a seat to change my shoes. Finally, I notice a spare chair with someone else’s bag hanging from the back. I sit down, hurrying to get ready before I have to forsake the chair.
With my dance shoes on my feet, I begin to look around. I am looking for a woman. Today I am wearing my ﬂat shoes. My long dress almost con- ceals my feet. Perhaps later I will change into my heels. But for the moment, I want to lead. The music changes. Tango waltz drifts over the ﬂoor from the speakers. The ﬂoor ﬁlls quickly: the lyrical 1-2-3 beat is popular. I see a woman across the room adjusting her shoes. I move toward her and ask her to dance. She smiles as I lead her onto the dance ﬂoor. She was expecting a man.
We do not know one another. Her body tentatively positions itself against mine. We feel for crevices, surfaces, attempting to make contact. The ﬁrst dance is a little unsettled. She doesn’t abandon herself to our touch. I move, sometimes forgetting to invite her to follow. We cannot quite establish a rela- tion. We are still thinking of ourselves as individuals.
In the middle of the second tango waltz, I feel the movement beginning to take over our bodies. We begin to individuate together. A relation begins to take form. My body can no longer as easily be distinguished from hers. A symbiosis of movement begins to create engenderings we cannot yet pre- dict. This makes us smile. The music leads us into unusual formations. I lead, she follows, I follow her following, she leads my following. A composi- tion is emerging. Qualitatively, we are altering each other’s matter-form, in-forming ourselves through the relation between movement and music. We operate according to the codes of tango but our improvisation take us