into compositions that modulate our reciprocal spacing of time and timing of space.
Reaching toward one another, our individuations qualitatively alter our “individuality.” Transducing, we become our leading and following, no longer altogether clear on who is doing what. The music takes hold of the ﬂoor. We follow the ground, participating in a larger metastable movement. We begin to dance with the room. The dance becomes a symbiosis that affects each couple. The music ends. We laugh, barely capable of containing the magic of the moment, suddenly uncomfortable. We step off the dance ﬂoor, seeking abandoned chairs, precariously aware that we have partaken in a symbiotic individuation that happens very rarely, usually only for an instant. Tango, a dance that can appear terribly constrained, led us momentarily to a qualitative change that modiﬁed our bodies in relation. Affective recom- binations still resound in our now solitary bodies. We will not forget this experience: we are marked from the inside out.
This image of leading and following in Argentine tango foregrounds the potential for an engendering that tackles the problematics of gender with- out needing to draw a ﬁrm boundary between gendered notions of gender. Here, what is engendered must no longer be strictly codiﬁed as strictly “mas- culine” or “feminine.” Bodies multiply and strands of gendered responses escape, perhaps bewildering those bodies from which they emanate. The result are new conﬁgurations of “gender” that exceed particular bodies. Bodies that are qualitatively altered are no longer predominantly recognized as “male” or “female,” “leader” or “follower.” These bodies now locate them- selves as experiments-in-movement, qualitatively in-formed by the dance. My body is no longer strictly my own. The envelope of my skin is but the inception of my re-engendering.
In its incarnations as a dance that crosses the boundaries between gender (and it is important to add here that this is still a rare occurrence18), I expe- rience in tango a continual shift between the corporeal and the incorporeal that allows my body to matter differently. In touch, the movement in relation calls forth the virtuality—the incorporeality—of my body. As we move, we space time, engendering what is not yet. Our dance virtually takes place through the openness to a touch-in-movement. Movement in the dance be- comes the way I reach toward the potentiality of spacing time and timing space, challenging the boundaries of multiplicities-in-relation. I am no longer simply leading: I am reaching toward a space I will create with you. This spacing occurs in tandem with you who make the choice to engage