limit the actualization of matter’s potential energy. This does not necessar- ily stop its actualization, but does in-form it. This process overspills the body’s envelope, suggesting that the body always exceeds its-self. When the rela- tionship between form and matter no longer takes place between inert mat- ter and external form, a relation becomes individuated between form and matter that results in engenderings that exceed the parameters of the sys- tems embodied by the limits of force. Individuations call forth transductions that engage new individuations. These individuations resist normalization: engendering bodies cannot be normalized because they are metastable, always moving toward potential.
The national body-politic normalizes gender so as to relegate the gen- dered body to speciﬁc sites within the nation’s domestic chronotope. The intelligibility of the gendered body becomes dependent on its representa- tion within the captivity of what the discourse of the nation considers to be the “norm.” Traditionally, the political public space (the nation) is deﬁned through the presence of men and contrasted to the apolitical, private space— the home—of women.19 As a consequence, disenfranchised groups, such as women, often feel they have no other choice but to turn to the nation or to national values to register their claims as political, this despite the fact that turning to the nation’s normative political systems usually reproduces the very same normative genderings.
What happens to this schema if we emphasize the potential of engender- ing rather than positing gender as an already-deﬁned category? The national body-politic is organized around understandings of the body that pre-suppose a state of stability between matter and form. Within this stable system where identity is subsumed onto territory, and space and time are pre-existent, rela- tionships are not permitted to escape the boundedness of their placings within time and space. Engendering exposes the mythical status of this dependence on conformity by calling forth a concept of relation that actively alters time and space as it points to the ways bodies produce matter and form. Because relation implies individuation and transduction, relation can- not as easily be located within the grids of the nation-state. Relation entails a new thinking of politics. Politics of Being are state politics. Politics of relation are politics of touch.
Inside and outside are not delimited within the concept of relation. Relation occurs in-between, at the interstices between the spaces and times created by bodies as they reach toward one another. Relation operates in the future anterior (the tense of the “will have” and of the “not yet”).20 The