The networks that produce gendered bodies are themselves prone to indi- viduation. There can be uniﬁed gender neither at the level of the body nor its classiﬁcations. Engendering gender suggests engendering something that can be called “masculine” or “feminine” but that cannot be securely relegated to predictable characteristics that will reproduce themselves coherently under all conditions in all circumstances. Engendering gender presupposes a reaching toward that creates chronotopes that are variable and changeable, individualizing but not individual.
Engendering is emergence toward the multiple. To engender is to take into account potential. Potential calls forth reserves of becoming that prompt us to recognize that identity can never be identical to itself. Gender is not ontological, it is ontogenetic. To become gendered is to become more than one, but not just two. Being “more than one” is to exist in a metastable state that acknowledges the mutations of a body-in-relation that are not predetermined by a given ideal or an infrastructure that seeks to organize and categorize the realm of the biological possibilities of a body. These transﬁgurations designate not only the metastability of all body-systems, but also their virtuality: an engendering body—gendered or not—is always not quite what it can become. Unlike possibilities, which are predetermined within their own systems, potential (or the virtual) designates a movement toward emergence. This virtual body is real but not yet actual. To become actual implies the emergence of new compositions. Matter and immaterial- ity, corporeality and incorporeality are operative on adjacent planes, shift- ing to and through one another. Engendering gender is to never know in advance what a gendered body can do.
Instead of positing nature as One, Spinoza draws our attention to the parallel multiplicities of being and becoming, the relation between politics and nature, intensity and extension, mind and body. All of these deﬁne, for Spinoza, the importance of thinking metastability rather than stability. Indi- viduations operate through this logic, calling forth engenderings that locate themselves always between bodies, in the chronotope of the not-yet but already-underway. This chronotope is metastable because it remains far-from- equilibrium in a system that remains on the verge of modiﬁcation due to parameters that are in ﬂux. “[E]very system that ﬁnds itself in a metastable