state harbours potentials which—because they belong to heterogeneous dimensions of being—are incompatible” (Combes 1999, 11). These poten- tials cause dephasings in the system that create unpredictable engenderings. “Re-thought as a metastable system, being before individuation is a ﬁeld rich in potentials that can be only in becoming, that is in individuation” (Combes 1999, 15).
Transduction is the movement through which individuations relate. Transduction expresses the processual nature of individuation, whereby the observer is never preconstituted. A stable “outside” cannot be conceptual- ized within the process of transduction. As Simondon writes, the ontogene- sis that takes place through transduction requires that we “follow being in its genesis, accomplishing the genesis of thought at the same time as the genesis of the object completes itself” (1995, 32). It is not a question of deﬁning conditions of possibility (a Kantian move) or deﬁning the limits of knowledge. Rather, it is a matter of positing thought and individuation in relation. It is only post-transduction, in the brief moment of embodiment- as-such, that an object of knowledge emerges.
“We cannot... know individuation, we can only individuate, individuate ourselves, individuate in ourselves” (Simondon 1995, 34). Individuations are not composed of identities. To engender is not to attach an identity to a body. “[O]nly a theory that thinks being through the operations of multi- plicity of his or her individuation is in a position to transform an approach to the relation in order to understand it as ‘a relation in being, a way of being’ ” (Combes 1999, 33). Relation does not convey a separation between, for example, engendering and gender, but is borne in the emergence of gen- der within engendering, constituting the terms themselves as relational. Being is becoming-relational.
There are no pre-established criteria that would favor the passage from engendering to gendering. If gender is not conceived as a naturalized biologi- cal essence or strictly a sociocultural condition of possibility, we can con- ceive of a politics of gender as an engendering toward a composition and decomposition of bodies engaging in the activity of forces and energies that are neither solely biological nor solely political. “A body is deﬁned by metastable relations between microcellular and multicellular bodies, the bodies of animals and humans, the bodies of society and technological bodies merging and unleashing new mutating compositions” (Parisi 2004, 27). En- genderings that gender are not exhausted by their classiﬁcations. Rather, they are connected to an intensive body that is inventive. This trans- formation exceeds a simple shift in discourse. The en-gendered body is an