affective, relational body that not only individuates in excess of its-self, but creates new and differing chronotopes that qualitatively alter the matter- form of which it is composed. What emerges is “a map of the non-linear movements of connection between causes and effects unfolding the potential (force) of a body to mutate through an ecosystem of indeﬁnite mixtures” (Parisi 2004, 29).
Engendering gender gives us a sense of what a body can do. For Spinoza, a body is not primarily an organism or an organization. It is an assemblage of kinetic particles and forces, of motion and energy. A body is a network of imminent trajectories with longitudinal and latitudinal lines intersecting. This is a radical departure from the Cartesian axis, which situates matter and form in predictable hierarchies, prescribing a pre-established organization of the body in space and time. In Spinoza, matter and form are mutational: what is at stake is the relation between motion and rest and the capacity to affect and be affected. Bodies here exist in a concept of Nature which exposes the coexistence of matter-form unfolding in a continuum without equivalence.21 This recalls Simondon: “The individual is the reality of a constituting relation, not the interiority of a constituted term” (Simondon 1995, 60). Coexistence is not simply a lack of resistance. It is an activation,22 a politics of touch.
There are state consequences to a politics of touch. Politics of touch op- erate within an affective-semantic structure quite foreign to nation-state politics. Regulations as to stringent measures of organized difference [man/ woman, citizen/refugee, state/interstate], structures of integration [social models that set up the less privileged as will-less victims], dimensions of be- longing [identity practices] are potentially subverted by a politics of touch. Within a politics of touch, gender exists not as an enduring predicament within a pre-conﬁgured space-time (such as that of the territorial imaginary of the nation-state) where “woman” is too often posited as a docile body that can be located, once and for all. As Parisi emphasizes in Abstract Sex, individuations do not create unities such as “woman” or “man.” Rather, indi- viduations are complex already at the cellular level and challenge the hier- archies between bacterial and human sexual practices that seek to relegate gendered vocabularies within capitalist narratives of surplus value and terri- torial vocabularies of binding identity practices. Endosymbiosis emphasizes that the regulation of bodies cannot be a one-sided operation. Any reaching toward is a crossing of a malleable border from gender to gender, from gen- der to en-gendering, engendering to engenderings. Bodies can be regulated, certainly, but bodies relate always beyond or in spite of these regulations,