reciprocally, and this is their politics, a politics of touch that operates al- ways, in some sense, in excess of the national body-politic.
Engendering challenges the governing body-politic by questioning the regulation of its politicized and depoliticized bodies. Engendering does vio- lence to the state by substituting the concept of identity with individuation. Bodies can no longer be located strictly within territorial grids. Engendering and engendered, we do not stand at an instrumental distance from the terms from which we experience a violation. We individuate in relation. Relation does violence to identity.
Heidegger’s name for this act of violent imposition is Entwurf, a term that draws attention to the manner in which we make sense of a situation into which we are thrown, due to which we ﬁnd ourselves disoriented. Touch- ing across time and space can be an unhinging experience, particularly if we take full account of the manner in which the touch of an other manifests it- self across our body, expanding the dimensions of our environments, mark- ing the intervals between our engenderings, dis-covering the measures of our symbioses. Butler understands this moment of Entwurf as one of radical undecidability, the state prior to a decision in which one can never reach a “pure” context, since every context is “always already” retroactively consti- tuted by a decision. My reaching across space and time to touch you is, in this sense, an Entwurf.
Touch is a decision to engender that throws us off balance. A politics of touch asks us to be willing to lose our balance, momentarily, to not know in advance, to disagree.23 Antagonism is at the heart of a politics of touch. When this antagonism remains untheorized, we are left with a politics that understands consensus as the only alternative to antagonism. But if we think of antagonism as a moment when we accept our constitutive difference as a measure of our not being able to “know” (where reason and the senses are no longer associated in opposition), antagonism can be conceived as an aspect of the very Entwurfenheit that characterizes a politics of touch. For Jacques Rancière, political antagonism designates the tension between the structured social body in which each part has its place, and “the part of no part” which unsettles this order on account of the empty principle of uni- versality. For Rancière, this identiﬁcation of the non-part with the whole is the elementary gesture of politicization. The non-part includes the bodies society cannot deﬁne or that resist their allocated subordinate space. With- out antagonism we are faced with depoliticization. Antagonism is analogous to the potential violence of in-formation that creates the metastable sys-