signifying. A politics of touch posits politics as asignifying, inviting us to think politics through its potential for expression rather than representa- tion. Expression articulates a body that is not foreclosed by meaning. This body is a sensing body in movement. Sensing, signiﬁcation becomes muta- tional. A mutational politics might be an abstract machine, an asignifying dynamic, a tensile ethics. Politics of touch prolongs emergent dynamics. “There is no entity to expression.[. . .] Its emerging into words and things is always an event before it is a designation, manifestation or signiﬁcation propositionally attached to a subject” (Massumi 2002b, xxiii–xxiv). Expres- sion produces momentum.
An emphasis on expression leads us away from a signifying subject to a becoming of relation. Expression is not reserved for the single voice of the speaking subject: expression dialogically produces chronotopes that expand the intervals between speakers and listeners. These intervals are not voids between discrete bodies; they are space-times alive with intonations, invo- cations, perturbations. To express is not to state a fact. To express is to speak-with. Any speaking-with implies a dialogue, an inﬁnite conversation. An inﬁnite conversation supposes that the work is yet to be invented.
Expression’s extensions can only be charted after the fact. “There is no tabula rasa of expression” (Massumi 2002b, xxix). Expression urges us to think language at its most productive limit, where language is conceived as a clutter in excess of mere representation. Expression leads us to the body, to touch, to skin not as the envelope of the body but as its interweaving of inside and outside, its endodermic, mesodermic, and ectodermic potentiali- ties. Expression plays on myriad surfaces, linguistic, corporeal, incorporeal. One way of exploring the relation between expression, asigniﬁcation, and the body is to pause at the concept of skin. This allows us to place at the fore one of the body’s organs without falling into the trap of re-instantiating the body-as-organization: skins are made up of bodies as much as bodies are made up of skins. Skin extends beyond the “body proper” giving us pause. Resting at the edge of our skins we cannot help but wonder what holds us together. Mark Taylor writes: “Since the organism as a whole is formed by a complex of dermal layers, the body is, in effect, nothing but strata of skin in which interiority and exteriority are thoroughly convoluted” (1997, 12). Skin, our largest organ, doubles upon itself, duplicitous, touching itself as other. Skins promise to keep organs inside. Organs protecting organs: “Hide hides hide” (Taylor 1997, 12). The body—even the technological body— is concerned with skin, be it skin color or the surface of the screen, threat-
ening to transform place into a dermagraphics. Skinscapes abound.