We pay attention to the surface. We are mesmerized by it, by its muta- tions, its impenetrability. Body art is simply an obvious example: “Body art represents...a sustained effort to reverse the dematerialization of art by making the body matter” (Taylor 1997, 111). Most body art encourages us to forget, for an instant, that we are piercing our organs.2 Facing the “out- side,” we place our skins between us and the world. If we consider our bodies as whole, we imagine our skins as protective (prosthetic). Strange connec- tion, then, between bodies without organs and skins.
Skins do not need “external” markings to express their mutability. Skins are mutations, continuously altering the limits of our engagements with the world: hot, cold, open, scarred, contained, exposed. Any sense of security we might have invested into the concept of skin and its ability to protect us from the outside is cast into doubt when we recognize that skin is but one of the ephemeral signs of the ultimate asigniﬁcability of the border. Bodies are not foreclosed by limits. Bodies extend, expressively, creating skinscapes that are as complex as the landscapes that make up our political vistas.
Is the asignifying body thinkable? Perhaps it is uncountable, incoherent, but not unthinkable. A new vocabulary of the surface seems necessary, however, to address the strange incorporation of bodies into skins and skins into bodies. To begin with, we must renegotiate the binaries within the lan- guage that frames the body: skin, bones, ﬂesh, inside, outside, mind, matter, reason, sense. Skin and bones may not be as dichotomous as we believe they are. When bones are conceived as layers of skin, the body thins (we have a tendency to think the body’s weightiness from the inside out, focus- ing ﬁrst on the bones, that is, the structure that holds it together). As Tay- lor remarks, at the point where bones and skin are no longer juxtaposed, “the body is deprived of its substance and appears to be on the verge of dis- appearing” (1997, 139).
How the body materializes and dematerializes is signiﬁcant for a politics that is concerned with bodies. When we conceive of democracy through a politics of touch, we assume that there is a body to reach toward. The pre- sumption that the body is concrete is based, too often, on a ﬁxed, territorial- ized, secure entity. If we approach the body’s surfaces as asignifying, we begin to be aware of the manner in which bodies are marked for their coherence through recognizable signs of race, sex, gender, ethnicity. A naturalization of these markings (in the name of national body-politics, of gender or race politics) is the reason we are so quick to recognize and identify these markers. Of course bodies can never be reduced to these external signs. But systems of governance rely on these signs to compartmentalize the bodies in their