attending to its irreducibility. According to Beardsworth, “[j]udgements and inventions which have endured this experience have greater chance of rec- ognizing difference according to the lesser violence” (1996, 101). When the time of the present as presence (the knowable) is challenged by the time of the future anterior (the unknowable or that beyond reach), inventions are born. The best inventions are the impossible ones.
A politics of touch is an impossible politics. It is a politics of the future anterior (the will-have come), a politics that is impossible because it has no horizon. A politics of touch is a passage rather than a presence. My skin marks this passage, my wrinkles betray time as ﬂeeting, my touch reaches toward the incongruity that is my own alterity, your difference. I cannot be indifferent to that which I cannot even conceive. This is the challenge of a politics of touch. “Now” is the time of a politics of touch, but not a “now” which remains in the present, rather a “now” that dances between tenses, undulating on the inner crevices of the skin of experience, expressing itself through a touch that cannot quite capture the passage of time even while continuing to reach out. Now is a recurrent potentiality: now is to be nego- tiated, again and again. As Beardsworth writes, now is “the ever-recurrent promise of the non-adequation of the present to itself” (1996, 101).
An impossible politics does not disavow time. Rather it invents time through a re-cognition of the passage of “nows.” This is also what touch does. When I reach out toward you “now” and I touch you, I mark one instant. In the sharing of skin—even if touch is not skin to skin I always touch a sur- face—I leave an imprint. This imprint is ephemeral. To be felt again, it must be repeated in another now, rendering the touch “in time” impossible if time is to be gathered into a narrative of presence. Touch is a trace, always deferred, always leading toward another moment, another imprint, another touch. A politics of touch calls forth a democratic movement toward justice that releases judgment indeﬁnitely. In practice, this means experiencing justice as the opportunity of postponing a ﬁnal decision even while engag- ing fully in an act of reaching-toward. To engage fully is to admit response- ability. A politics of touch recognizes that there will always be time(s) for another judgment, for another justice that itself will call forth the irreduci- bility of time.
Beardsworth writes:
The impossible aporia of law releases the possibility of possibility. This impos- sible possibility constitutes the measure by which all judgments can only fail to measure themselves. Hence the measure of judgment is nothing but the im- possibility of its measure; in this impossibility the singular arrives. (1996, 44)