A deconstruction of the political suggests that judgment as such is impos- sible. Judgment is impossible insofar as judgment must take place in a pre- speciﬁed organization of time and space (and there is, ultimately, no such time and space). It is for this reason that we must not confuse judgment, justice, and the law. While the law is always written with the option of a rewriting, thereby at least offering the potential of justice, judgment fore- closes this very opening by stopping time. Judgment is opposed to my re- sponse: it wants to have the ﬁnal word. A politics of touch in the guise of a democracy-to-come foregrounds response-ability. I respond to you always toward a present that is not yet with the promise to respond again. Touch is never a single gesture. Response-ability is a radical understanding of the future anterior.
The relation of law to time is invested in the imaginary of politics and its futures. If time is not goal directed, outcomes cannot be classiﬁed in the same way, and laws cannot be written in stone. Judgment and law are here juxtaposed. The suggestion is that law operates in the virtual because it always remains to be rewritten. This paradox (since law seems like the most staid of events) betrays the complex time lines already operative within political systems. Beardsworth suggests that “all inventions can only be ‘recognized’ after the event, and the history of their exclusions always already haunt the ‘present’ of the act of invention” (1996, 99). To recognize is to re-cognize, to take into consideration again. Inventing new imagi- naries depends on re-inventing both our investment in time and our invest- ment in the law. By thinking the law according to the logic of the aporia, and by locating the porous skins of our intermingled and overlapping bodies (be they singular or multiple) as potential embodiments of the aporia, we can begin to appreciate the manner in which law has always been predi- cated on a certain delay of time rather than on the ﬁxity of time. The vio- lence of the law depends on legislation coming either too early or too late. There is no presence of the law. The law is written on porous skin. The law itself is aporetic. “The future anterior of determinant law is the law of the force of all law” (Beardsworth 1996, 100). The aporetic quality of time and law mark the delay of human invention. The justiﬁcation of law is what makes time stand still, turning politics into policy.
This is not to say that law itself opens the way for a democracy-to-come. It is to underscore the ways in which even state politics move to different choreographies of time. Within the state, a narrative is written that binds security to judgment, bodies to law, even while bodies and laws continu- ously escape the straitjacket of striated space-time. Skins regenerate as laws