that living systems must be understood as a tripartite ensemble of genotype, hereditary information primarily although not exclusively born by DNA; ribotype, the swarm of translational apparatuses that transform DNA into the  tertiary  structures  of  folded  proteins;  and  phenotype,  the  dynamic embodiment of this information and its transformations (in Doyle 2003, 23).
Life is postvital in the same way that humans are posthuman. This is not a shift in life or humanity per se. It is a shift in our way of thinking life and humanity. Life has been blocked by a narrative of subjectivity that holds to a model of linear time that presupposes categories of meaning based on pre- established signifying structures. The becoming-silicon of ﬂesh and the becoming-ﬂesh of silicon point toward not a radical change but an enact- ment of the manner in which the body has always already been multiple. “We are entering a period in which we have the capabilities to use informa- tional technologies to generate new forms of ﬂeshy experience,” write Philip Thurtle  and  Robert  Mitchell  (2002,  2).  The  concept  of  posthumanity10 focuses on the relation between the body and embodiment, leading us, ﬁnally, toward a body without organs that engages (with) the world not by means of pre-established limitations, but through an emergent network that overlaps prosthetic and organic devices. To think the body any other way is to make it impossible to explore the potential of politics, for politics de- pends on this quality of supplementarity. Disagreement and astonishment are stiﬂed when the limits of the body—the limits of relation—are pre-ordained. Katherine Hayles writes: “the posthuman view thinks of the body as the original prosthesis we all learn to manipulate, so that extending or replacing the body with other prostheses becomes a continuation of a process that began before we were born” (1999, 3). There are no deﬁnite boundaries to the body. Our skins overlap, undermining strict measures of inside and out- side. Our bodies are amalgams, collections of heterogeneous components (antibodies, germs, bacteria, implants) that undergo continuous reformula- tion. This reformulation is an asignifying process. Bodies and antibodies interact, sometimes to their advantage, sometimes to their detriment. Con- ditions of possibility change, and with them new (anti)bodies materialize and dematerialize. We are not in possession of our bodies, though we do have the capacity to creatively express them. We are our bodies, but even “being” our bodies is too ontological. Our bodies are vectors of emergence that gen- erate virtual embodiments in a future anterior we can only reach toward.
Our skins are peeling away, leaving new surfaces for experimentation.
Vicki Kirby writes: