of peripheral environments and no longer expecting research on the senses to provide a straightforward re-articulation of the body-politic—I ﬁnd the intriguing aspects of the study constrained by a research methodology that continues to situate the senses within a model of the body that is gendered and codiﬁed, a model reminiscent of the one Politics of Touch attempts to write against.
Let me foreground one aspect of Meany’s work as a pertinent example of how research on the senses often continues to reconstitute the preconsti- tuted Cartesian body even while it attempts to expose the body to new sensing conﬁgurations. Meany writes that “fathers cannot be included in the experiment because there are not enough research funds” (2004, A6), thus taking for granted gendered assumptions as regards the senses and the reason-senses, mind-body dualisms. Meany does not know what the father’s role is in regard to the child’s sensing body not only because research funds were not sufﬁcient but because fathers have never been a research priority as regards the senses. Therefore, while Meany’s research exhibits a qualita- tive opening in the reason-senses paradigm, he is ﬁnally incapable of recog- nizing the body outside the normative constraints of the very Cartesianism that has held the senses captive for at least three centuries: the father con- tinues to be associated with reason and the mother with the senses. In addi- tion, the senses remain organized within a motor-sensory system that retains the active-passive dichotomy between the one who touches and the one touched.
In Politics of Touch, I explore the ways in which research on the senses can extend beyond commonsense approaches to the senses and to the body. To write about the senses it is necessary to write against the grain of a mind- body, reason-senses model that continues to privilege staid readings of gen- der, biology, and politics. To write against the grain is to become sensitive, at all junctures, to how the body is deﬁned, composed, and compartmental- ized. This challenge becomes palpable when we return to Meany’s work: despite the fact that his work explicitly attempts to rethink the sensory sys- tem and its biological effects, presuppositions as regards the (gendered) body undergird his arguments. It is in part because Meany does not question how touch works that his ﬁndings are not yet capable of extending beyond commonsense notions of touch. The challenge when working with the senses is to not presuppose that we already know what it means to sense.
That mothers can alter the experience of their young by touching them is not something I dispute. What I counter is the notion that the senses are