Democracy
For Derrida, democracy is still to come: “We do not yet know what democ- racy will have meant, or what democracy is. For democracy does not present itself, it has not yet presented itself, but that will come” (2005, 9). The issue is not how to place a politics of touch within an already-existing discourse of democracy, but how to think touch in such a way as to allow us to re-negotiate a politics of time and space that would not be anathema to a democratic politics. This is not a small task, as William Connolly underlines, for narratives of democracy (as an already-existing phenomenon) are them- selves changing: in a world replete with asymmetries of pace and an accel- eration of speed that often supports corporate colonization of new spaces inside and outside highly organized capitalist states, “the ensuing politics of capture often foments reactive movements in the name of nationhood and religious purity, expressed as attempts to slow the world down by returning to a unity imagined to have been intact sometime in the past” (2002, 143). Politics is speeding up, and with it, the concept of democracy is changing: “The question for me, then, is not how to slow the world down, but how to work with and against a world moving faster than heretofore to promote a positive ethos of pluralism” (Connolly 2002, 143).
For Connolly, a certain asymmetry of pace is critical to democratic plu- ralism. Yet, asymmetries of pace also foster the fragility of democracy. It is this fragility that is of particular interest here as regards the intersec- tion between politics, touch, and democracy. The movement invoked by a reaching-toward must always be uncertain: when I reach toward you, I do not know what I will touch—I do not yet know how your touch will return to me. I know only that I am willing to take the risk inherent in the move- ment of reaching-toward. This uncertainty is predicated on the double-take of touch. If I pretend to know the outcome of my reaching-toward, I am not really reaching-toward. In other words, when space is preconstructed (when the space between is overdetermined by my certainty about you and your simple location11 in the world), there is no space to cross, there is no chrono- tope to create, and ultimately, there is no potential for touch as a reaching- toward. Touch becomes political the instant I reach out toward you in an uncertain movement of unknowing, of unknowability. Touch, when I reach you, does not then transfer into a knowable commodity, but into another