Individuation is a process that takes place in the moment, a juncture that is strictly speaking neither past, present, nor future. To work with the process of individuation through which democracy emerges, we must there- fore resist nostalgic narratives that attempt to hold time in place, presenting us with pseudocomforting images of an all-encompassing touch. Such nar- ratives sound like this: “In the past, there was real contact. Now we barely speak any more, all of us obsessed with our new technologies, cell phones attached to our ears, hands shackled to our keyboards, eyes focused on our screens.” There is no such touch of a pre-lived past for us to miss: to feel touched we must continuously replenish the touching. Touch will only have occurred again: touch touches toward the future. There is no sensation of touch  that  remains  alert  without  reinstantiation.  Touch  is  a  change of pace. Touch keeps us moving, inciting us to sense beyond this moment toward another moment. Touch is very much in-time with the troubling and exciting rifts caused by the accelerations of timed-spaces in the con- temporaneity of which Connolly speaks. The issue is how to transpose these rifts toward democracies-to-come:
the fundamental issues are, ﬁrst, how to engage the rift and, second, how to respond thoughtfully to the acceleration of pace without falling into either a dangerous insistence upon slowing the world down to a snail’s pace or a crude celebration of high velocity per se.... The intellectual challenge is how to come to terms productively with the ambiguous relations among time, pace, freedom, plurality, and democracy. None of us may really be prepared to meet this challenge. But time is short. (2002, 147)
At stake in this process of acknowledging the shortness of time is the impor- tant realization that uneven pace has always been operative within time, constituting rifts between pasts, presents, and futures. Like touch, time is always deferred and deferring.
Rifts in time can constitute political moments. Rifts in time indicate the incalculability and incommensurability of democratic equality. Democratic equality is uncountable: it is the touch I will never be able to encapsulate within a system of capitalist exchange. As Derrida writes about democracy: “This equality in freedom no longer has anything to do with numerical equality or equality according to worth, proportion or logos. It is itself an incalculable and incommensurable equality; it is the unconditional condi- tion of freedom, its sharing, if you will” (2005, 49). Equality as the uncount- able attracts, absorbs, and deﬂects the possible, engendering potential stakes at each juncture. It is not an equality that stabilizes the relation by rendering