touch, we are struck by the realization that sense is never made consis- tently—how could it be, when sense senses?14
Touch deﬁes stability, renewing itself instead in an ephemeral gesture of reminder. Touch does not make sense if by making sense I refer to something I should always already have known. There is no permanence to touch, only a re-touching. As a sense-generating practice, touch is transitory, short- lived, ungraspable. To make touch last, something must be supplemented: a blow, a grasp, a hold. Touch is a simultaneity of becoming whose character- istic is to elude the “before” and “after,” a becoming that moves in both directions at once. Touch is anathema to what Deleuze calls “good sense,” which “afﬁrms that in all things there is a determinable sense or direction (sens)” (1990b, 1). A democracy-to-come does not embody good sense: it does not incorporate a pre-determined directionality. It is unlimited, becom- ing, individuating, in excess of a language that would seek to ﬁx the limits of sense. Touch senses toward a movement that is layered rather than teleo- logical. Democracy, understood in terms of a politics of touch, can only be conceived as a sense-making practice if we divest sense of its relationship with “good sense.” There is no sense (as a ﬁnal moment) to democracy. Democracy need not make sense, though it should sense, encapsulating a gesturing toward an other that defers toward moments that are thick with movement, with sensation, with experience.
Sense is an event. Deleuze writes: “It is the characteristic of events to be expressed or expressible, uttered or utterable, in propositions which are at least possible” (1990b, 12). An investigation of sense (making sense and/as sensation) allows us to begin to explore the manner in which the standard- ized discourse of the political (operative within state sovereignty and the nation-state system) relies on making good sense rather than on sensing. There need not be a dichotomy between making sense and sensing, for both engage in similar dynamics, expressing the event in a manner that is lived through and in the body. I make sense through sense. Certainly a long line of thought in political  philosophy,  beginning  with  Plato  and  continu- ing through Descartes and beyond, locates “making sense” with reason, out- side the body, but if we allow ourselves to re-place making sense as an event in and of the body, it soon becomes apparent that making sense need not stand apart from sensing. Intelligibility need not rest on the trouble- some attachment of knowledge as reason. In the end, it may be reasonable to sense.
Deleuze writes: