The I is primary and sufﬁcient in the order of speech only insofar as it envelops signiﬁcations which must be developed for themselves in the order of language (langue). If these signiﬁcations collapse, or are not established
in themselves, personal identity is lost... in conditions where god, the world and the self become blurred characters of the dream of someone who is poorly determined. This is why the last recourse seems to be identifying  sense with signiﬁcation. (1990b, 18)
Returning sense to signiﬁcation is a common trap associated with theoriza- tions of the political and of democracy. In order to “make sense” of the political, we often demand that it signify within the grids of intelligibility we deﬁne as signiﬁcation. Sense does not operate quite this smoothly, how- ever, as a politics of touch demonstrates. For signiﬁcation to encapsulate sense, it must be ordained within a system of intelligibility that leaves no remainder. This is where signiﬁcation fails again and again. “When we deﬁne signiﬁcation as the condition of truth, we give it a characteristic which it shared with sense, and which is already a characteristic of sense” (Deleuze 1990b, 18). This is the paradox: we want signiﬁcation to make sense and so we turn sense into signiﬁcation. “In discussing the conditions of truth, we raise ourselves above the true and the false, since a false propo- sition also has a sense of signiﬁcation. But at the same time, we deﬁne this superior condition solely as the possibility for the proposition to be true” (1990b, 18).
The problem with divesting signiﬁcation of sense(s) is that it reinforces a return to a process of conditioning whereby we move in a tight circle of condition to conditioned, signifying only to the extent that we already locate within our vocabularies the premises for signiﬁcation as good sense. In order for signiﬁcation to avoid this vicious circle, it must create a residue that avoids the form of the conditioned. This residue can be thought as the apo- ria, the sheets of time, the trace. The aporia within the discourse of sense betrays the uncanny relation between sensing and making sense. The senses are supplements to signiﬁcation in the Derridean sense not simply of adding to but also replacing:
the supplement supplements. It adds only to replace. It intervenes or insin- uates itself in-the-place-of; if it ﬁlls, it is as if one ﬁlls a void. If it represents and makes an image, it is by the anterior default of a presence. Compensa- tory [suppléant] and vicarious, the supplement is an adjunct, a subaltern instance which takes-(the)-place [tient-lieu]. As substitute, it is not simply added to the positivity of a presence, it produces no relief, its place is assigned in the structure by the mark of an emptiness.... Whether it adds