not based on learned reactions to stimuli (the most current understanding of the senses) but according to a different conception of a body. If we under- stand sensing as more than a motor response, we are in a position to explore the unknowability of sense. In other words, sensing need not express a sen- sation we have already experienced. To sense may also be to know differ- ently, in excess of my current appreciation of “my” body. It is in this regard that sensing can be considered a prosthetic to the biological body. To sense may be to create a new body. If new bodies are what is at stake, new politics will have to be created. A democracy-to-come cannot know in advance what or where or who the body is. Democracy as a sensing politics is a movement toward making sense(s), towards new orientations of experience. Sense does not pre-exist experience. Within a politics of touch, I am unable to state the sense, to locate at one and the same time something and its meaning. Sense resists essence: sense(s) cannot be signiﬁed. Signiﬁers attempt to encapsulate entire propositions, including dimensions of signiﬁ- cation, denotation, and manifestation. Politics without essence is a politics that is asignifying, that operates in excess of linguistic signifying systems. Politics has always been about bodies. Bodies have always exceeded signiﬁ- cation. An asignifying politics underscores that political bodies are sensing bodies in movement. These bodies cannot be counted within the means of signifying systems already in place because such systems of sovereign gover- nance refer back, always, to the stratiﬁcation of the grid. Certainly, grids will not disappear, but grids are not the ﬁrst encounter bodies have with sense. Bodies are back-formed onto the grid, they do not emerge from it. Politics works the same way: politics emerges out of the movements of sens-
ing bodies.
Democratic politics is an event. An event is the reversal of the Platonic gesture toward essence and the substitution of movements of singularities.15 The event-ness of democracy opens the way for disagreement, for choice, for accidents. Politics is not something to be solved. Solutions “make sense” only when problems are prelocated within a logic of solutions. Politics focused on solutions is policy or police. A politics of touch does not yearn for solu- tions, but moves toward disagreement. This does not mean that a politics of touch does not learn. Knowledge imprints itself and is imprinted onto a democratic politics. The difference is that a politics of touch focuses on the redistributions of singularities rather than on results, each combination an event. “[S]ense,” writes Deleuze, “is never a principle or an origin, but... is produced. It is not something to discover, to restore, and to re-employ, it is something to produce by a new machinery” (1990b, 72). Democratic politics