is one way to produce sense, to make sense of relations of emergence between sensing bodies in movement. Sense and senses are surface effects, that is, they are inseparable from the surfaces (the bodies) that are their proper di- mensions. Senses are not about ﬁxed meaning, but about discovery, about reaching-toward, about relation. “Today’s task is to make the empty square circulate and to make pre-individual and nonpersonal singularities speak— that is, to produce sense” (Deleuze 1990b, 73). The distributions of sense are not linear: democratic spaced-times and timed-spaces must resist returning to teleological models of identity, territory, history:
The paradoxes of sense are essentially that of the subdivision ad inﬁnitum (always past-future and never present), and that of the nomadic distribution (distributing in an open space instead of distributing in a closed space).
They always have the characteristic of going in both directions at once, and of rendering identiﬁcation impossible, as they emphasize sometimes the ﬁrst, sometimes the second, of these effects. (Deleuze 1990b, 75)
Good sense is said of one direction only. This direction (consensual nation- state “democratic” politics, for instance) is determined as that which goes from the most to the least differentiated. Time moves in only one direction when space is static. Good sense fulﬁlls its mandate by holding the body to the grid. Holding the body from movement is to afﬁrm only a single direc- tion, a single pace, allowing the body to differentiate itself only from the singular to the regular, and from the remarkable to the ordinary. What makes bodies interesting is that they regularly resist this grid, re-de-forming them- selves (in movement) all the while, even if only at a cellular level. So the real danger is not that the body will be kept still, but that a politics will be written onto the body that resists engaging with the movement that is intrinsic to the relations between bodies and worlds. Such a politics, which naturalizes the shift from the extraordinary to the ordinary through a rendering-static of potential, is not a democratic politics, but a sedentary distribution of affects along a lifeless grid.
Good sense and common sense are not going anywhere. They are em- bedded in dreams of policy that hold themselves (without imagination) to a world that does not change. There is no such world, of course.16 To quote Deleuze once more:
Common sense identiﬁes and recognizes, no less than good sense foresees. Subjectively, common sense subsumes under itself the various faculties of the soul, or the differentiated organs of the body, and brings them to bear upon a unity which is capable of saying “I.”... The complementarity of the two forces of good sense and common sense are clearly seen. Good sense