Touch is about movement. Tact refers to a certain preemptive declaration that the body should not move. Tact says, “be careful, do not make yourself known. Retreat.” If bodies move as a quality of their becoming-world as Politics of Touch has argued thus far, how might touch incorporate tact within its deﬁnition? What would be a touch that could be secured by tact? Bodies can be stratiﬁed, organized, categorized, even restrained, but they cannot be stopped. If security implies a certain stopping, or at least stalling of the body, and if tact is complicit with this abeyance of the body, tact would have to be juxtaposed to what the body can do through a politics of touch. Tact in this regard would function as an imposition onto bodies more than a quality of potential reembodiment. Bodies secured with a tactful injunction would have to stop (being bodies). Yet, deﬁnitionally, tact oper- ates within all touch, at least as a supplement. How can we then reconcile
tact and touch?
Tact is anathema to a politics of touch, but never wholly disjointed from it. Touch is always at risk of being tactically re-secured. Tact abides within the conditions of possibility of touch. To circumvent tact, touch resolves to reach beyond tact, beyond the unspoken judgment that urges me to refrain from touching. To touch entails acknowledging the risks associated with the unknown toward whom I reach when I touch. Touch must always lead beyond where I anticipated it would. Tact, on the other hand, keeps me in the realm of the almost-known, the anticipated-in-advance. In this regard, tact holds to a structure of habit that discourages invention. To be tact-ful is to claim to know in advance. Tact-fully, I reinscribe my movements within a certain structure of sedimented propriety. Even though incorporeal (tact is based on a virtual necessity rather than a spoken judgment), tact has the full capacity to be gridded. Touch, on the other hand, emerges from a diver- gent version of incorporeality: I touch always toward that which has not yet been decided. I cannot back-grid the future anterior.
Contact challenges me to a decision to be-with either tact-fully  or toward touch. This is a decision I will always make anew. If I decide not to touch toward the untouchable, I will continue to operate within a version of politics that has already been secured as a measure of the current political situation.1 To engage in a politics of touch is to respond beyond the judg- ment tact activates. A politics of touch will always embody tact as its neme- sis (and vice versa). Tact will warn touch in its hoarse whisper about the risks at hand, attempting to put the senses in their place, even as I continue to reach toward the untouchability of the senses as senses, asking of my