Tactically Untouchable
The body that touches is a body that is always in excess of its-self. Brian Massumi writes: “What if the space of the body is really abstract? What if the body is inseparable from dimensions of lived abstractness that cannot be conceptualized in other than topological terms?” (2002a, 177). Bodies reach- ing toward are abstract bodies. They are abstract because they space, abstract because incorporeal, touching-toward. I cannot secure a body that is reach- ing toward because that body is in movement, qualitatively altering spaced- times. What is this body that cannot be secured within a vocabulary of ﬂes- hed enclosure?3
I wonder whether it might not be related to the Body without Organs (BwO) that Deleuze and Guattari evoke in A Thousand Plateaux. Let me explain: a body that is always in the potentiality evoked by a reaching- toward is a body that must also always already be beyond its-self. This body is abstract in the sense that it is always virtually becoming its potential. Because there is no end-limit to becoming, this body-in-potential cannot be conceived of as a permanent space-time, but must instead be thought of as an exfoliating movement toward another exfoliating movement. The body as exfoliation cannot be grasped. But it can be thought—abstractly. An as abstract potentiality, this body is not solely contained within an enclo- sure—skin—which can be organized (tactfully) within a system of gover- nance (a body-politic). The BwO is more than its discrete outside and inside. This body-as-multitude is a strata onto which intensities congregate. A BwO is a body that moves between metastable states, operating, always, within sys- tems of protopermanence that seek to slow or even stop its movement. But even in their slowest instantiations, Bodies without Organs are co-forming so quickly that they cannot be located and secured.
Deleuze and Guattari’s Body without Organs is not a metaphorical con- cept. The BwO is “of” and “and” the body. The BwO is a way of asking our- selves how we could ever have thought of the body as a unit, as a uniform singularity. The body is never its-self. We have several bodies, none of them “selves” in terms of subjectivity. Touch as reaching toward already alerts us to the downfall of discourses of subjectivity: if my body is created through my movement toward you, there is no “self ” to refer back to, only a prolif-