eration of vectors of intensity that emerge through contact. This contact is not an end-point; it is not a moment of arrival where something like two bodies “meeting” happens. It is far beyond tact. Rather, it is a signaling of a reaching that arrives, momentarily, only to have to have been arrived at, relationally, again.
Reaching toward, we are always in the process of making our own BwO. “At any rate you make one, you can’t desire without making one” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 149). This body which awaits me is a body of my own making only to the extent that I move toward the potentiality that is my reaching out toward you.4 It is not an assemblage that I put together, piece by piece. My BwO always differs from its-self: you create it when you space- time with me. “And it awaits you; it is an inevitable exercise or experimen- tation, already accomplished the moment you undertake it, unaccomplished as long as you don’t” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 149). But it is not stable or guaranteed. You can begin to create a BwO only to retreat into your “self,” thereby undermining the process. You can always choose not to touch.
“You never reach the Body without Organs, you can’t reach it, you are forever attaining it, it is a limit” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 150). The BwO is literally that which I reach toward when I attempt to touch you. The BwO is the body that remains anathema to the body-politic about which the sov- ereign nation dreams. Sovereign politics cannot uphold a thinking of a BwO because this “body” cannot be contained within a stabilizing imaginary. This concept brought forth by Artaud—“there is nothing more useless than an organ” (in Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 150) —is a concept that rallies against the state. It is a concept that speaks of experimentation, radicaliza- tion, censorship, repression. It is a concept that promises nothing (I can also create a disciplinary BwO, or a sick one, a deranged one, an addicted one) except movement toward something that is not “me,” that can never be “me” in the strict sense. If touch is indeed a central ingredient in the cre- ation of the BwO, we might argue that touch is that which most strenuously denies the concept of “me” that is at the heart of a politics of identity. There is no identity to the BwO. There is only movement.
“The BwO is what remains when you take everything away. What you take away is precisely the phantasy, and signiﬁances and subjectiﬁcations as a whole” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 151). Reaching-toward is political because it develops a space-time that is repeatedly altered. When I reach toward you, I challenge the idea that I can know you, that I can interpret you, that I can tactfully “touch” you in the sense that I can convey to you