your separateness. The BwO is tactless: I can never predict the manner in which my BwO will unfold. This folding is of the skin, but not the skin as envelope. The skin of the BwO is the in-folding of space and time as event-ness. The skin is the incorporeal excess that provokes a memory of a reaching that arrives, in passing, to imprint skin with the resonance of its evanescence.
When I reach out to touch you, I create a BwO that is populated by inten- sities that pass and circulate. I do not create a scene of touch. I do not cre- ate a model that can be re-created or interpreted. Your BwO is always out of reach. It is out of reach because it is not, strictly speaking, operating “in” space and time. It is spacing time and timing space through intensities that come to pass, that reach me momentarily, that decompose in the reaching, that sense without making sense, that make sense sensing. There is no ulti- mate moment, no ﬁnal organization to the BwO: remember, what I reach toward is not your body, but your BwO. Our bodies are not organic to the concept of touch. Our bodies are continually inventing—intensely invent- ing—what can be thought as touch, bodily. The BwO is a multiplicity that challenges the dichotomy between the one and the multiple. Reaching toward you, you become multiplicitous, you multiplicitously multiply me. “A plateau is a piece of immanence. Every BwO is made up of plateaus.
Every BwO is itself a plateau in communication with other plateaus on the plane of consistency. The BwO is a component of passage” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 158). How does touch operate on the plateau? Where is pol- itics? Consider the BwO as a component of passage that introduces the potential meeting of BwOs. Would that not be a politics? These meetings on the plane of immanence are smudges in time-space, conﬁgured as reachings- toward that call forth the potentiality of a touching that could be a politics. A politics here conveys the potentiality of a continuing movement toward, a taking-further of the movement through which touch is instantiated. Poli- tics of touch implies and is implicated in touching the untouchable.
The BwO does not exist in opposition. It “is” not “against” the organism. But it does defy the “organism.” The BwO is the revolt we can never quite hold back, the excess of the ﬂesh, the senses intermingling synesthetically at the contours of our forms, the matter that concerns us, the individuation that calls forth a difference we cannot subsume within strict categorization. The BwO is contrary, but not dichotomous. It is contrary because it is resist- ant. It is resistant because it will not ﬁt the system, because there is no sys- tem to be called forth once the organism has been disseminated. The BwO is a telling adventure: the exploration of terminologies that fall apart as