soon as they are touched, like old skeletons disappearing into small mounds of dust at the touch of my hand. There is no body. There is no sovereign. There is nothing that is secure. Is this possible?
No. There must always be a God, a priest, a king, a mother. Sovereignty reigns, but only insofar as the singular body continues to be upheld in the name of the body-politic: sovereignty needs to identify the body, if only to destroy it in the name of the state of exception.5 Judgment precedes bodies. Habits form bodies. Control regulates security and security regulates con- trol. Bodies navigate between these vectors, displaying all the talents of organization bodies are reputed to obey. But they smell. They sweat. They desire. Despite themselves, bodies are always “too much,” always excessive, always, in some sense, uncontrollable, unsecurable. Even dead, they decom- pose, infested, digested. Organisms are made and dismantled, organized and categorized, understood and comprehended, discarded. But bodies are pro- ductively inﬁnite.
Deleuze and Guattari write: “The organism is not at all the body, the BwO; rather, it is a stratum on the BwO, in other words, a phenomenon of accumulation, coagulation, and sedimentation that, in order to extract useful labour from the BwO, imposes upon it forms, functions, bonds, dominant and hierarchized organizations, organized transcendences” (1987, 159). Stratiﬁcation takes place. Concretely, it gives space and time, constricting the timed spaces in which we live. But these spaced times are also ephemeral. They can be re-vectored. Constellations can be generated that subvert the vocabulary of “within” and “without” on which these kinds of space-times are predicated.
The BwO disturbs space-time. But it does not do so simply by entering it. It emerges through it. “It is in the BwO that the organs enter into the rela- tions of composition called the organism. The BwO howls: ‘They’ve made me an organism! They’ve wrongfully folded me! They’ve stolen my body!’” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 159). The making of a subject is the rendering- signiﬁcant of a body claimed as docile. The docile body is tactful: it does not reach. But a body that is subjectiﬁed is never subjectiﬁed forever. Tact rests on a structure of appearance that can be dismantled. The body morphs and resists, despite its-self, despite the state, despite the sovereign. The body swings between stratiﬁcation and experimentation. The body is never con- tent to sit still: it must become. “A perpetual and violent combat between the plane of consistency, which frees the BwO, cutting across and disman- tling all of the strata, and the surfaces of stratiﬁcation that block it or make it recoil” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 159).