Articulation is at stake here, as is disarticulation. A worlding of words make it possible to perceive the ways in which bodies are always already inter- twined within their own representations, within their destratiﬁcations, within their sensations, within the worlds they create. Bodies empty them- selves in order to be ﬁlled again. What ﬁlls them, among other things, is sense, sensation. Touch populates the body, prosthetically engaging it to feel differently, to see, to hear, to taste the world again. To reach. For Bodies without Organs to move, intensities must pass along them. They must be produced. Production implies displacement, change, altercation. Bodies with- out Organs are disagreements with/in space and time, challenging at every juncture the constitution of the subject that operates at the basis of politics. Bodies without Organs are not metaphors: they are instantiations of a dif- ferent kind of politics, a different thinking of the body, a patient reaching that reaches toward the BwO’s incessant re-making.
Is this too abstract? Or is it perhaps not abstract enough for the lived abstractness that is the sensing body in movement? We orient through the senses. A discussion of abstractness needs to be predicated on a comprehen- sion of the strangeness of our senses: “The way we orient is more like a tro- pism (tendency plus habit) than a cognition (visual form plus conﬁgura- tion)” (Massumi 2002a, 180). Proprioceptively, kinesthetically, we reach toward an orientation that becomes our worlding of the world. We self- reference, we register, we extend. The relation of position to movement is inverted. “Movement is no longer indexed to position. Rather, position emerges from movement, from a relation of movement to itself” (Massumi 2002a, 180). Touch spaces, instantiating, through movement, a BwO that becomes a dynamic of relation and disagreement between sense-dimensions. Senses fold into one-another creating an in-folding and out-folding, an exfoliation of experience.6 Touch is an event.
Movement precedes sense. Sensing is prosthetic: sense instantiates a BwO that afﬁrms that experience comes to it prosthetically, through move- ment.7 Prosthetically, senses stimulate worlds, which in turn activate bodies. When we think of touch this way, we challenge meaning-producing prac- tices of knowledge and information that are considered “innate” to the body. Experience is animated by the senses, sensing. Experience implicates the senses, worlding the body. Experience expresses the event that produces my BwO. I sense prosthetically, extending my body intensely toward the un- touchable. What I sense is always an expression of potential. In potentia, my BwO creates sense vectors, prosthetically reaching out toward the world we