create through touch. A politics of touch depends upon the BwO as much as the BwO depends on a politics of touch. This is not necessarily reassuring: not all BwO are capable of forming pathways for intensities required for a radical politics. Not all bodies are willing to risk.
The body is multiple. There is no particular BwO. My body intensiﬁes differently with every reaching-toward. There is no unique experience of touch. Touch, as Nancy writes, is singulier-pluriel. Touch is duration.8 Static, bodies do not not make space for touch as a reaching-toward. Static, we re- main tactful, although our determination does not exhaust the potential of our body. Too abstract? Not abstract enough.
Sense-events are real but abstract. Actual but virtual. Virtual because my body remains that which it never always already is. Virtual because the senses resist stratiﬁcation within a stable conﬁguration, responsive primarily to that which is not-yet. I touch that which I am not-yet touching. What I touch is not the object itself, but the potential of the object to be touched. I touch my capacity to emerge through the object. I touch my experience of reaching-toward. “The problem is that if the body were all and only in the present, it could be all and only what it is. Nothing is all and only what it is. A body present is in dissolve: out of what it is just ceasing to be, into what it will already have become by the time it registers that something has hap- pened” (Massumi 2002a, 200). A politics of touch activates this transition, this moving through the present where past and future are in nonlinear continuity with one-another. “A body does not coincide with its present. It coincides with its potential. The potential is the future-past contemporary with every body’s change” (Massumi 2002a, 200).
Bodies operate in the crease where past and future coexist. Bodies are in movement and to move they must fold-in, fold-out. “The moments of time are dimensions of each other’s unity of movement into and out of each other. They are co-operating dimensions of transition” (Massumi 2002a, 200). Deleuze’s vocabulary of the virtual is essential here. Bodies—especially the bodies constrained to the discourse of the national body-politic — have been sequestered in a discourse of the actual. Bodies cannot be strictly actual because they are never strictly actual to their movements. They are virtual in the sense that  they  are  always  reaching  toward.  The  abstraction  of the body is the reconceptualization of the difference between actuality and virtuality. “Incorporeal: abstract” (Massumi 2002a, 204).
Bodies are technologies of movement, of transposition. Bodies do not take us home. Bodies without Organs are castaways. “The body is the holding-