together of these virtual innards as they fold out, recursive-durationally, in the loopy present, in determinate form and conﬁguration, always provisional because always in becoming” (Massumi 2002a, 205).9 But bodies are not only virtual. Virtuality must become empirical.10 This is the paradox of the senses: sensing renders the body virtual by exposing it to continual move- ment, yet sensing and senses render the body’s ﬂeshiness actual. My experi- ence of touch is empirical (I touch to “know” the sensation) but radically so: I touch what is always already not-yet there. Bodies as emergent vectors of experience shift between proportions composed of actuality and virtual- ity. Virtuality phases into actuality abstractly. This movement toward the actual is abstract because despite its actuality it is difﬁcult to trace exactly its beginning and its end. As Massumi writes, “The limits as such must be conceived as unmixed but in enough dynamic proximity to interfere with each other in their actual effects as attractors” (2002a, 159). Lurking happens on many levels here. Plateaus are evoked even as the engagement between sense-events is localized. Sense-events are reminders that the virtual and the empirical pass into one-another, challenging body times and spaces, creating and modulating bodies.
Why BwO? Can’t we simply retain the body? Rewrite it? Certainly, but not before dismantling it, whatever “it” is. This is a work in progress. Or more precisely, a work in potentia. This is a work that incites us to ﬁnd con- cepts that make us stumble in order to ask, once more, what “a body” can do. The BwO is expressive. “We do not know even know what a body can do,” writes Spinoza (in Deleuze 1988b, 17–18). As Nietzsche says, we are sur- prised about conscience, but what is really surprising is the body (in Deleuze 1988b, 18).
For Spinoza the expressiveness of the body denies any hierarchy between ﬂesh and soul. Thought is at stake: through the body we must think further than we have thought, we must express beyond a thinking of consciousness that has driven us so far. Bodies exceed our knowledge of them. Meetings between “bodies” incite us to create Bodies without Organs which are always, in some sense, bodies of thought. Relationally, we begin to think not the order of causes (and effects) but the play of compositions and decomposi- tions at work. We compose with bodies. Bodies emerge not only as what they are but what they expressively can become.
According to Spinoza, a body (however miniscule) is composed of an inﬁnity of particles that express themselves through modulations of rest and movement. Movement and rest categorize the body’s incessant movements-