toward. Bodies affect other bodies. Expression happens in the in-between of bodies. Individuation takes place in these intervals. Bodies are not deﬁned through functions but through modalities. Forms or functions are replaced by effects of slowness or speed and their interrelation. “Even the develop- ment of a form, the course of the developing of a form, depends on these relations, not the reverse” (Deleuze 1988b, 123). What is important is to conceptualize—to express—life, individuation, not as form but as a com- plex interchange between differential speeds.
I do not touch that which is already formed. I am attracted to the poten- tial of attraction. I am driven by the potential of creating a spaced-time and a timed-space through the process of reaching out. This attraction gives a certain vitality to a politics of touch. Organs are not essential here. Nor are substances or even subjects. What is essential is movement: what the body can do. Bodies without Organs necessitate a patient thinking of the poten- tial of modulation: an ethology11 of the body-becoming.
Ethology studies the composition of relations or powers between different things. Ethologies are not about knowledge as end-points but about accumu- lation and difference. They are about extension, about expressions, about events, about becomings. “[Ethology] is not a matter of utilizations or cap- tures, but of sociabilities and communities” (Deleuze 1988b, 126). Ethology is about longitude and latitude. A body can be anything. Unformed, a BwO seeks not its form but its potential. Touch operates as the directionality of this seeking. Touch takes place in the intensity of a movement-toward, the body becoming other through relation. “The longitudes and latitudes together constitute Nature, the plane of immanence or consistency, which is always variable and is constantly being altered, composed and recom- posed, by individuals and collectivities” (Deleuze 1988b, 128).
The plane of immanence is not composed of a supplementarity that would precede or exceed it. Bodies on the plane of immanence are what they become in a now that is eternally recurrent. There is no subject here, only affective states individuating, force-fully. Bodies without Organs express their multiplicity on this plane in the relation between rest and movement, in the creation of intensities that draw space and time into new conﬁgura- tions for the invitation of other bodies, other movements. Touch operates politically as that which instantiates connections, however brief.
Warren Montag writes:
Spinoza’s philosophy provides the best illustration of the concept of the immanent cause, a concept that, during the late 17th century, was one of its most scandalous postulates: it is a philosophy that exists in its effects,