There is no absolute constraint that can be imposed on the body. The pact is not a death sentence: it is an interruption in the BwO’s nomadic lines of ﬂight. Interruption is a necessary operation. Bodies without Organs would im- plode or explode were there no restrictions to their movements. Accelera- tion demands deceleration. A pact is not an inherently good or bad propo- sition. A pact is a decision, a practice of setting up new velocities and new directionalities. It is a stratiﬁcation, certainly, but it can always lead to new
destratiﬁcations, and in most cases, it does just that.
Pacts are evocatively political: “every civil society, from the moment it can be thought of as the realization of a pact, is naturally democratic” (Bal- ibar in Montag and Stolze 1997, 184). No populous is original, neither in Nature or in the state. Imaginaries preside over all manifestations of the multitude, including conglomerations of stratiﬁed bodies and Bodies without Organs: “in history there is not a unique form of the democratic imperium, but there are necessarily several: as many as there are ‘regimes’ correspond- ing to the imaginary representation of the common interest” (Balibar in Montag and Stolze 1997, 184). Within the imaginary representation of the common interest there need be no opposition between bodies, between states, between reason and nonreason. The deviation from imaginary to imaginary is the virtual process through which bodies become bodies in re- lation with other bodies. It is also the process through which Nature passes into states and states become Nature.
The pact projects onto politics the internal contradictions of institu- tions, of bodies, while at the same time expressing the passional conﬂicts of the multitude. Through the pact, politics manifests itself. “Institutions by themselves have no other power than that of the masses, including when it is a matter of a power of decomposition” (Balibar in Montag and Stolze 1997, 185). This is a multiway process: it is most often through institutions that the masses organize themselves into tendencies, into lines of ﬂight that in turn destabilize or destroy the very institution through which power was instantiated. Institutions breed their own demise, as do individuals. Democ- racy is not only the potential to work together to form institutional bonds. It is also the potential of destratifying the body of the state to build war