machines that project onto the institution the destabilizing forces of unpre- dictable and ungainly Bodies without Organs. Revolutions are internal to the system. Revolutions in the name of a politics of touch are about moving the matter and mattering the movement. A politics of touch demands of the Body without Organs that it leave its trace, that it incorporealize the organs of its passing.
For Balibar, “what the pact institutes is a collective power that assumes after the fact the form of a relation between wills” (in Montag and Stolze 1997, 187). This suggests that wills do not exist before the formation of the pact, that the pact itself involves the formation of a will, or better, the per- petual trans-formation of the will of the multitude. “Theoretically speaking, individual or collective wills do not exist before the pact but are consti- tuted under its effect, this very effect that places the summa potestas in the place in which the law that must be observed is stated” (Balibar in Montag and Stolze 1997, 187). The will is a retroactive effect of the pact, a conse- quence of a decision. The will exposes a directionality already decided upon in the writing of the pact. Yet the will does not dissolve with the passing of the pact because it in-forms the writing of the next pact. In this regard, it is not as transitory as the pact itself. The will continues to shift, to pre-exist the next pact, yet only coming into itself with the subsequent re-writing of the becoming-pact. There is no individual will, therefore. The will is a vector, an intensity, a connectiveness that gives power (potestas) to the directionality of the reaching-toward.
Will-less politics would be politics without movement. Dictatorial poli- tics, perhaps. Or politics of boredom: politics of the One. A politics of touch calls forth the will in every decision to reach toward another, in every relation of forces. For Spinoza, this notion of force does not promise a departure from servitude. That we live in potentia only means that we can choose our pacts; it does not mean that we will not write servile ones. For this reason, Spinoza does not oppose autonomy and heteronomy, spontane- ity and obedience. The pact promises nothing. Power is not hierarchical. It is an expression, an event in and of the body, a projection of bodies onto and into the world, a worlding. The pact is not a limit-concept, though limits are often perceived and even reached. Spinoza suggests that the constitution of societies is “the chain of actions and passions of the multitude: a multi- tude reducible to the totality of individual powers that compose it, but ir- reducible to a sum of bilateral relations (or of exchanges) among individuals” (Balibar in Montag and Stolze 1997, 193). Causality is not what is at stake here. Sovereignty is never entirely certain of where it is going: “the potestas