tion of dis-placing the body in relation to the senses.2 I suggest that to think the body in relation to the senses is to: (1) encourage a thinking of the body in movement; (2) engage with the possibility that bodies are not limited to their organs; (3) shift the question of “what the body is” to “what can a body do.” My engagement with touch is not an exploration of something I could strictly deﬁne as sensing per se but an encounter with the atypical expressions of a sensing body in movement.
Since the nineteenth century, few political theorists have concerned themselves with an exploration of the sensing mechanisms that drive the body and force it out of the grids of intelligibity that would like to capture it for service to the national body-politic and its measures of qualiﬁcation. A link could be drawn between the normalization of state sovereignty and its adjacent body-politic, and the denial of the sensing body in movement. Without a commitment to the ways in which bodies move, bodies become stabilized within national imaginaries in preordained categories, such as citi- zen, refugee, man, woman, homed, homeless. Deliberately avoiding the entanglements inherent in articulating (and ordering) sensing bodies in movement, the state can claim that its body-politic is uniﬁed. The body can be described and its politics can be deﬁned. Within state discourse, com- mon sense is at stake, not the senses. To reclaim the sensing body in move- ment is therefore to think both alongside and against the nation-state.
Politics of Touch asks what a sensing body in movement can do through the prisms of tango, democracies-to-come, violence, security, friendship, gender, biology, sex. The politics of touch outlined here is a politics engaged in a pact to invent new bodies. The question posed is less “what is a sensing body in movement” than “how can I create a sensing body in movement?” The proposition is that touch—every act of reaching toward—enables the creation of worlds. This production is relational. I reach out to touch you in order to invent a relation that will, in turn, invent me. To touch is to engage in the potential of an individuation. Individuation is understood through- out as the capacity to become beyond identity. We individuate inventively. Relationally, we engage in individuations that require difference and repe- tition. Without difference that repeats, we foreclose the process, returning the body to territorialization, national body-politics, stable genders, politi- cal consensus.
To invent is political if we understand politics to be lured by the body’s tendency to relate. Bodies respond to one another through metastable conﬁgurations between the microcellular, the multicellular, and the inter-