is only effective to the extent that the individuals who have constituted it permanently recognize it as constituting a law for their will” (Balibar in Mon- tag and Stolze 1997, 194).
Bodies without Organs emerge in potentia of a politics of touch. Touch is of the body but not strictly on the body. It is an intensity at work in the cre- ation and dissemination of a BwO. It is a vector of emergence and reception that plays on the intensities at work in the BwO. It latches onto your inten- sity, adhering to it only long enough to express the moment of passage. To touch is to make a pact. Touch is a mode composed of many parts. It is a mode that is capable of being affected while affecting. Parts are affected by pacts which are, themselves, remnants of pacts. The body is part of a pact that involves touch, touch is part of a pact that involves politics, politics is part of a pact that involves the body. The nature of these extensive parts is that they affect one another ad inﬁnitum. A mode has affections by virtue of its capacity to be affected. It is in this sense that the mode—touch, a politics of touch—is a Body without Organs.
Deleuze writes: “A mode ceases to exist when it can no longer maintain between its parts the relation that characterizes it and it ceases to exist when ‘it is rendered completely incapable of being affected in many ways’” (1990a, 218). Modes are transient. A politics of touch is only as productive as its BwO. There are no guarantees. A body’s structure depends on the composition of its relations. “What a body can do corresponds to the nature and limits of its capacity to be affected” (Deleuze 1990a, 218). Modes are composed of extensive parts that are affected and determined by intensities traveling through them. Every existing mode is affected by modes adjacent to it. Every existing mode is altered by its relation to other modes. Politics of touch are emergent politics dependent on the vectors of interrelation externalized on the strata of the various Bodies without Organs in its envi- ronments. Politics of touch are ethological.
The issue for Spinoza is how modes are activated: “Can they attain active affections, and how?” (Deleuze 1990a, 219). For Spinoza, this is the ethical question. As I mentioned before, there are no good or bad modes. Deleuze explains: