Modes are affected by the passing of their affections. The affects that pass through modes indicate the relations between our Bodies without Organs and the pacts we make. Ideas are durations located on the strata of our BwO. These ideas indicate a relation not only to our worlding, but also to our previous states and the relations between our Bodies without Organs and these earlier states. Duration marks the process through which a poli- tics of touch develops.
How active is my BwO’s relation to the pact? Engaged with/in the multi- tude, I choose a position. This position can be tenuous: I can suggest that the choice was made for me or despite me. Choosing implies a will that sug- gests that modulations are overlaid with an interweaving of activity and passivity, no matter where our movements lead us. To be properly ethical for Spinoza implies ﬁnding a way to implicate oneself in one’s own ideas: “The actions of the mind arise from adequate ideas alone. The passions de- pend on inadequate ideas alone” (in Deleuze 1990a, 221). The political question is: how can we produce adequate ideas? For Spinoza, inadequate ideas lead to suffering: “The capacity of being affected is called a power of suffering insofar as it is actually exercised by passive emotions. The body’s power of suffering has as its equivalent in the mind the power of imagining and of experiencing passive feelings” (Deleuze 1990a, 222).
Existing modes are open to variation according to the affections that populate them at any given moment. There is no proper politics of touch. A politics of touch will deviate according to the pacts that sustain its reach- ings. Modes are elastic. A politics of touch is a concept that carries within its worlding a capacity for, and an opening toward, potential.
The question of modes leads us toward an issue central to a Spinozean reading of the body: of what is a body capable? A body wills itself collec- tively into passivity, into affection, into movement. But this is not a didactic gesture. A movement toward an other contains our uncertainty as regards what affections we are capable of expressing. When I reach toward, I cannot yet know the extent of our power, for this potentia remains to be produced.