Power, puissance, potentia: these frame politics at its most complex. Politics of touch reposition standard understandings of state politics by having no system of reference for a concept such as individual power. Without an individual, a body cannot be secured. Enclosures—conceptual or physi- cal—require a hierarchy of dominance, which in turn requires a given body. If the body is no longer given but produced, it cannot be held to a system of governance that knows in advance how to tactically restrain its citizens.
To touch is to become aware that I am never yet fully formed. Your BwO coincides with my own. Bodies without Organs require participation. World- ing involves composing pacts through which we are able to create intense vectors of co-relation. Politics of touch are con-tact-ual politics, politics capable of making contact. This is not about tact. It is about risk.
A politics of touch cannot be about moral harmony. Bodies without Organs do not necessarily get along. Neither is this about subjectivity. It is about intensity, about potential relations. Affections can slow down the body as much as they can activate it. Before bodies are anything, they are renewable. Politics of touch are composite politics, politics composed of inﬁnite variances of affects, politics reaching toward not an end but a means. An expressive politics ﬁnds no ultimate correspondence. A politics of touch is a concatenation of various effects. Perhaps the way to think a politics of touch is to conceive of a machine proliferating insistently against and beyond whatever you imagine politics of touch already to be. A politics of touch is adjacent, relational: it never stands alone. This machine does not necessarily correspond to politics as you meant to invent it, but it does feed on your imagination, on the invention you are yourself becoming. A politics of touch is every time in every instance a different and differing poli- tics. In this regard, a politics of touch stands alongside Spinoza’s complex assessment of Nature as that which is always already “physical”: “a physics of intensive quantity corresponding to modal essences; a physics of extensive quantity, that is, a mechanism through which modes themselves come into existence; a physics of force, that is, a dynamism through which essence as- serts itself in existence, espousing the variations of the power of action” (Deleuze 1990a, 233).
A politics of touch is at the mercy of encounters. Insecure, a politics of touch must actualize its power, again and again. This actualization is as virtual as it is actual. It forms as in the crystal. We actualize, we move, we virtualize, we move, we actualize. The relation cannot be secured. Security happens only in the stopping. There is no stable point where I am fully stopped. I rest