Politics of touch space time and time space in such a way as to make them indiscernible. They are never what they once were. I cannot locate politics in space and time. I create space and time politically. Space times and time spaces, generating Bodies without Organs. Bodies without Organs emerge through encounters that modulate such concepts as action, reason, free- dom. “Reason, strength and freedom are in Spinoza inseparable from a de- velopment, a formative process, a culture. Nobody is born free, nobody is born reasonable” (Deleuze 1990a, 262).13
Predictable dichotomies are no longer evident: body/soul, reason/senses, nature/culture. Politics of touch make relational pacts. It becomes a ques- tion of compatibility and extension. Building Bodies without Organs that correspond to some kind of reasonable common-sense politics requires encounters with those whose Bodies without Organs circulate around con- cepts that promote this kind of reason. This is not impossible. In fact, it is common. What is uncommon is realizing that even those Bodies without Organs that seek to organize their intensities around concepts such as rea- son are themselves continually destratiﬁed in sensual relations to nonsense. You can never fully escape sense. Even making sense senses.14 “The highest essences already strive in their existence to make their own encounters cor- respond to relations that are compatible with theirs. This endeavour, which cannot wholly succeed, constitutes the striving of reason” (Deleuze 1990a, 264–65). Controlling space is a way of creating a locus operandi for a pact of reason. This is one of the functions of the state, which seeks reasonable bodies to secure its borders. Bodies without Organs are not eminently rea- sonable. They leak, they expand, they multiply. Hence, within the state apparatus they must be policed, ordered, categorized, ﬁtted to the national body-politic, collapsed into an imaginary that represents the sublation of identity into territory.