Other words or concepts could stand in for a BwO: politics of touch, body, prosthetics of sense, errant politics. The key is that the concept be evocative of what a body can do. Like bodies, concepts exist to be unpacked, to be modiﬁed, to alter the timed-spaces and spaced-times they create. They are not solid. They are incorporeal but not metaphorical, real but abstract. “‘What [a body] can do’ is its capacity to be affected, which is necessarily and constantly exercised by the thing’s relations with other beings” (Deleuze 1990a, 269). But “as far as it can” does not mean as far as you would. Or could. It means that the body can choose, relationally, to act. “[The ethical difference] lies in the immanent existing modes involved in what we feel, do and think” (Deleuze 1990a, 269). What makes the (ethical) difference is that this activity of relation is joyful.
Joy is for Spinoza the truly ethical sense: “A philosophy of pure afﬁrma- tion, the Ethics is also a philosophy of the joy corresponding to such afﬁr- mation” (Deleuze 1990a, 272). A politics of touch is joyfully creative. It is a politics of afﬁrmation. Most politics make a Descartes move, stopping at rep- resentation. For Descartes, it is the representative content of ideas that is at stake, as well as the form of the psychological consciousness that thinks these ideas. With only an extrinsic characterization of represented ideas, we get no further than the extrinsic characteristics of Being. Spinoza thinks politics otherwise, beginning not with representation but with the potential of afﬁrmation. For Spinoza, what is at stake is the immanent content of ideas, not perfection, reality, or causality, but the surprise of not knowing what a body can do. Noncausal correspondence is at the heart of a politics of touch. When we speak of noncausal correspondence, we are no longer talking about “the law” or “the sovereign.” We are now speaking about the intensities that populate these concepts and the ways in which they inter- relate. It is not about how sovereign politics holds us captive within its nationalist imaginaries, but about how we affect those imaginaries every day as we re-populate our Bodies without Organs.
Joy corresponds to the relation between active series and what is invari- ant between them. This noncausal correspondence speaks to resonances between bodies in-formation. Expression is engaging, even when it is chal- lenging. Expression is the Nietzschean afﬁrmation. Expression is a noncausal correspondence because it relates to what expresses itself as distinct from expression itself. A politics of touch embodies a multiple movement that navigates between the expresser and the expressed, between the expresser and expression. A spiral movement: eternal return. A politics of touch