The senses as prosthetic to the body morph the discourse of form.
Concepts only go so far before they must be reinvented. The notion of posthumanity is in many ways heavy-handed. But what is evocative about it (and its coupling with the delightfully heavy-handed BwO) are its conno- tations of incompleteness, its prosthetic indeterminacies, its insecurities of embodiment. The post- in the human suggests not that we come afterwards as prosthetic newcomers, but that we were always already embodied in ex- cess of our organs.15 My goal here is not to trace the history or the contem- poraneity of the posthuman. Rather, I present the concept to offer one more entry point into how bodies are not only continually constructed through the senses, but are also relationally inter-created in a ﬁeld of prosthetic in(ter)vention. At the same time, I want to draw attention to the fact that technologically, there is nothing “new” to the posthuman. What is new, perhaps, is to think the senses as prosthetic. Posthumanity, as Hayles points out, is not a concept of the future, but a concept of the past that has been strangely overlaid with a conception of human bodies as humanistically static. We have always been posthuman.
Back to prosthetics: how to think the body as always already prosthetic? I am an organism. I breathe, my heart beats, my pancreas controls the sugar levels in my blood, my skin regenerates, my liver cleans my blood, my kid- neys ﬁlter wastes and expel them, my brain receives and disseminates waves of information. But I am also much more than an organism. I breathe a smell that tastes like the morning. The morning reminds me of the texture of the wood of the breakfast table, rough to the touch at the spot where the detergent ate through the varnish. To “be” a body is to become. To sense is to live in the beyond of the mere organism. Sensing is not essential to the organic body. I smell in excess of the strict composition of my ﬂesh and bones. But without my senses I am not aware of my ﬂesh as “body.” It is in this regard that senses are prosthetic: they are in excess of the organic, yet they make the organic palpable.
To think the senses as prosthetic invites us to explore the surprising path- ways toward which our senses lead us. These movements are never direct. They are interlaced, synesthetic, nonlinear. A politics of touch is an engen- dering of this kind of prosthetic thinking of the event. A politics of touch is