Political Recompositions
An invention can only ever be a work in progress. A politics of touch acknowledges in advance the impossibility of creating a body per se. To iden- tify a body as such would be to tame movement. To capture movement is to stop sensing. Politics of Touch works with the paradox that a sensing body in movement will always circumvent a project that attempts to characterize it in the name of touch, the senses, gender, race, politics. I accept this paradox and offer Politics of Touch not as a reading of what touch is, but as an explo- ration of what might happen if we are willing to direct our thinking toward movement, toward a relational stance that makes it impossible to pin down knowledge but asks us instead to invent.
In the chapters that follow, I have not attempted to develop a coherent politics (this would reinstate a linear space-time), but have instead sought to create lines of ﬂight that invite us to rethink the ways in which movement alters many of those concepts we consider foundational. To think bodies in movement is to rethink the relation between space and time, between move- ment and stillness, between a politics of the nation-state and the Spinozean pact. It is to inquire into democracies-to-come and to wonder what poli- tics might become were we capable of reinventing it. To think bodies in movement is to ask how knowledges/worlds are created, and whether these worlds are capable of expanding the “simple location”3 of organic bodies. To explore touch in these ways is to be willing to engage with the body as excessive to the national body-politic, to express an interest in a body that is always more expansive than we have heretofore been able to imagine.
Politics of Touch begins with transculturation-in-movement, a concept that exposes the ways in which interweaving cultures depart from the often stultifying narratives of the nation-state. Transculturation comes to the fore in chapter 1 through the specter of Argentine tango, the legacy of a dance that invariably exceeds its parameters, be they cultural or national. Trans- culturation suggests that culture is always more than that which the nation identiﬁes as its imagined community.
Transculturation proposes not only a cultural slippage but also a poten- tial alteration in the relation of space to time. Through tango, transcultura- tion encourages us to rethink the ways in which we touch and move together,