and to explore how these movements instantiate new chronotopes. The foregrounding of space-time through the ﬁgure of the chronotope is a way of reminding ourselves that space and time (as deﬁned by the nation-state or by a concept of culture that is embedded in national politics) cannot exist separately. Space and time are always space-time. Bodies in movement space time and time space rather than existing in an empty container of space marked by the passing of a linear time line.
The tango opens the way for an engagement with a cultural phenome- non that is at once ﬁercely nationalistic and startlingly inventive. To think tango both as a transcultural improvisation and as a national artifact is vital to the project of Politics of Touch because it reminds us that there is no clean slate onto which bodies are written and politics are made. Even while they potentially resist the boundaries of the state, transcultural phenomena often remain embedded  within national  imaginaries. Politics—like  bodies— emerge out of frictions, accidents, disagreements, and interlockings that are both ﬁrmly institutionalized within pre-constituted space-times and that create emergent space-times. We must remember, however, that whether sanctioned by the nation or positioned transculturally in excess of the national body-politic, there is no body that exists before it moves. This means that bodies must always be stilled to be characterized. It is a back- gridding process. When stilled, politics—and bodies—can be stabilized in the name of a larger system (state sovereignty, the nation-state, the body- politic). But even then, these “stable” compositions must be ferociously maintained and contained, lest they begin to reach toward one another, engaging in compositions that remind us that bodies are always stranger (unheimlich) than they ﬁrst appear.
Tango prepares the way for a thinking of the strange instability of bodies. This in turn lays the ground for a thinking of disagreement (Rancière), which emerges in the subsequent chapters. To think politics through disagreement is to resist a consensual model. To disagree (mésentente, in Rancière’s words) is to foreground the process of coming to a decision. To “take” a decision (Derrida’s concept) is what is at stake here. The process of decision-taking involves taking the risk that your decision might change the orientation of an event. Disagreement involves an openness toward this risk, a risk that places into question ﬁlial strategies that restrain politics to hierarchical models with which we are familiar (citizen/sovereign, refugee/citizen, homed/home- less). Disagreement in-forms politics. In-formation, a concept that comes from Simondon, allows us to conceive of information as a process. Disagreement