4. Engenderings
1. For a thorough exploration of the Spinozean question of “what a body can do,” see Deleuze (1981). This question is also explored in more detail in chapter 6.
2. On language and the political, see Manning (2003).
3. For more on the concept of individuation, see Simondon (1995) as well as Combes (1999).
4. For Deleuze and Guattari, “virtual” and “reality” are not opposites. They are interrelated. The virtual is that moment of “reality” that lives in the “not-yet.” It is the future anterior, that toward which we reach. Andrew Murphie writes: “Individ- uation—as a process—is the speciﬁc series of actualizations of the different/ciations of the virtual” (2002, 199). For a stimulating discussion of the incorporeal, see Mas- sumi, “Introduction: Concrete Is As Concrete Doesn’t” (in Massumi 2002a).
5. A system that is far from equilibrium is an unstable system. A system in equilibrium is a system in which dynamics are more or less maintained despite envi- ronmental changes. In far-from-equilibrium systems, molecules begin to act as “sin- gularities,” the exact behavior of which cannot be predicted. According to Prigogine and Stengers, nonequilibrium is the basis of the deﬁnition of a biological system. See Prigogine and Stengers (1984).
6. Symbiogenesis refers to the origin of new tissues, organs, organisms, and even species by the establishment of long-term or permanent symbiosis. The term was also used by Konstantin Merezhkovsky (1855–1921) to refer to the formation of new organs and organisms through symbiotic mergers. Symbiosis is a term coined by German botanist Anton de Bary in 1873, deﬁned as the living together of very dif- ferent kinds of organisms to their mutual beneﬁt.
7. It is no longer considered controversial that animal and plant cells origi- nated through symbiosis. Discussions of the permanent incorporation of bacteria inside plants and animals as plastids and mitochondria appear in high school text- books (see Margulis 1998, 4–12).
8. I am referring here to an explicitly Western genealogy of gender practices. Detailed research into Eastern philosophy would be necessary to expand this analy- sis to the East.
9. Deleuze and Guattari’s concept of the machine refers to a conceptual assem- blage. For a detailed examination of the machinic, see Deleuze and Guattari (1987).