and in-formation are relational concepts: both engage in the name of im- provisation with that which cannot yet be known.
Improvisation is the creative potential at the heart of any composition. Improvisation engenders new concepts. Although operative throughout, improvisation comes to the fore in chapter 4, where gender, engendering, endosymbiosis, and touch come together. Chapter 4 takes as its point of de- parture the notion that to engender is to conceive of matter and form not as inert and stable but as relationally metastable. I suggest that form and mat- ter regenerate through encounters with one another rather than occupying separate planes: the quality of matter is source of form, element of form. To borrow from Simondon, the transformation of matter-form involves metastable individuations. Metastable individuations foreground the fact that structures never precede individuations. An individuating structure partakes of transduction—the concept at the heart of chapter 4 —which is any process (biological, physical, social, technical) in which in-formation or new taking-form occurs, enabling reiterations of the matter-form matrix. Transduction is individuation in progress: invention. If we think identity, we have returned to a stable body. A moving body—a sensing body—cannot be identiﬁed. It individuates always in excess of its previous identiﬁcations, remaining open to qualitative reiteration.
Politics of Touch rests on the originary assumption that there is no such thing as a body that is not relational. Bodies individuate in response to a reaching-toward and they reach toward as a response to their individuation. At its most political, to reach toward is to create a concept for unthinking the individual as a discrete entity. Sensing bodies in movement are not indi- vidual bodies; their individuations are always collective. They are worlding bodies that are one with the potential of movement. To become is to move toward something that is not yet. To exist in the not-yet is to individuate incorporeally or virtually. This shift toward the virtual does not preclude actualization, it suggests that to reach toward is to engage with what Deleuze calls the crystallization of time,4 where the actual and the virtual coincide. Touch occurs at the intersections of the prism, creating a relation that is actual while ﬂirting with the future anterior, the “will have come.” The future anterior is dealt with in more detail in chapter 5, where I explore the ways in which democracy remains to-come.
The incorporeal is like a smudge that emanates from your body’s poten- tial movement.5 The smudge exfoliates in all directions, leaving traces of the potential of the animated body as it moves from here to there, from the