10. A bacteriophage is a virus that infects bacteria. Once inside the cell, it repli- cates using its host’s enzymes.
11. Gestures in Simondon convey the potentiality that exists in the composi- tion of form and matter. A brick, for instance, is composed of matter (clay) that pre- supposes its form (a polyhedron). The quality of matter is source of form, element of form whose technical operation causes a change in the status of that matter. “Matter is matter because it harbours a positive property that allows it to be moulded.... Pure form already contains gestures, and the ﬁrst matter is itself potential becoming; the gestures contained in the form meet the becoming of the matter and modulate it” (Simondon 1995, 40). See also the ﬁrst chapter’s discussion of gestures through the work of Giorgio Agamben.
12. Autopoiesis refers to a self-maintained system, or a set of principles deﬁning life and pertaining to membrane-bounded, self-limited, internally organized systems that dynamically maintain their identity in a changing environment. Autopoetic en- tities are able to replace and repair their constituent parts, ultimately at the expense of solar energy.
13. Each of our cells is normally double (diploid), possessing at least two sets of chromosomes. Meiosis reduces by half the number of chromosomes in the cell. Fertilization occurs when these haploid (single chromosome) cells revert to a dip- loid state.
14. Mitosis is cell division with the maintenance of chromosome number.
15. Naked genes have been touted to be at the core of life (H. J. Muller, 1890– 1967). Margulis does not believe that it has been proven that naked genes exist be- yond the nucleus of a plant or animal cells. See Lynn Margulis (1998).
16. The second law of thermodynamics concerns the quality of energy conser- vation: in a closed system, high-quality energy is inevitably lost to friction in the form of heat. This suggests that the universe is not symmetrical with regard to time and that complex processes such as life behave according to tendencies and direc- tions. See Margulis and Sagan (1997).
17. August Weismann (1834–1914) is the founding ﬁgure in the emergence of modern neo-Darwinism. For an interesting reading of Weismann’s contribution to evolutionary theory, see Ansell Pearson (1999).
18. El Corte, a tango club in the Netherlands, is a fertile environment for the speciation of tango. Established by Eric Jeurissen some ﬁfteen years ago, it is a loft- like space that hosts international tango encounters once a month. These “chained- salons” last thirty-six hours. For thirty-six hours in a row, couples are invited to dance, talk, sleep, eat, drink. A New Year’s marathon also takes place once a year, extending this experience of nonstop tango to three days. These tango events pro- mote an unusual milieu through which individuations are made possible that exceed the gendered norms of tango. At El Corte, dance becomes an experiment in indi- viduation. Often, the dance ﬂoor seems to move symbiotically, the music resounding in the grounding movement of couples reaching toward one another, engaging trans- ductively across bodies, times, and spaces.
19. For an exploration of national politics and the notion of “home,” see Man- ning (2003).