opposition between law, convention, the institution on the one hand, and nature on the other, with all the oppositions that they condition;...a deconstructive interro- gation that starts... by destabilizing, complicating, or bringing out the paradoxes of values like those of the proper and of property in all their registers, of the subject, and so of the responsible subject, of the subject of law (droit) and the subject of morality, of the juridical or moral person, of intentionality, etc., and of all that fol- lows from these, such a deconstructive line of questioning is through and through a problematization of law and justice. A problematization of the foundations of law, morality and politics” (1992, 8).
14. Common sense, the unity of all the faculties at the center constituted by the Cogito, is the state consensus raised to the absolute (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 376). See chapter 3 for a more detailed discussion of Aristotle’s notion of common sense and its relationship to consensus politics.
15. Brian Massumi writes: “By ‘singular’ is meant ‘incomparable.’... The singular is without model and without resemblance. It resembles only itself. In this precise and restricted sense, what is actually seen is absolute: ‘comparable only to itself’” (2002a, 162–63).
16. See Stengers and Pignarre (2005) for a captivating reading of current politi- cal agendas and alter-global potentialities. The work Stengers and Pignarre lay out for themselves involves engaging with political events in their fault lines, at junc- tures when redeﬁnitions—new recipes—are at work, at such moments as when the pharmaceutical industry, for example, is in the midst of redeﬁnition. “A medicine is not a molecule produced by human genius due to which capitalism exploits its work- ers. This molecule has become inseparable from its mode of fabrication and distri- bution, and when it enters society, it is capable of transforming it in multiple ways” (113). This kind of transformation calls forth Latour’s concept of “political ecology,” which points to the ways in which politics expands beyond the direct human con- cerns of those involved. From nuclear disarmament to GMOs to pharmaceuticals, political ecology, as Stengers and Pignarre underline, invents itself each time anew, thereby altering the timed spaces and spaced times of politics.