4. Rafael Lozanno-Hemmer’s “Subtitled Public” is an innovative artwork that captures and extends this notion of the BwO. “Subtitled Public” consists of an empty exhibition space where visitors are tracked with a computerized infrared sur- veillance system. As people enter the installation, texts are projected onto their bodies: these “subtitles” consist of thousands of verbs conjugated in third person and they follow each individual. The only way to get rid of a subtitle is to touch someone else: the words are then exchanged between them. “Subtitled Public” invades the supposed neutrality of the space that museums and galleries set up for contemplation, underlining the violent and asymmetric character of observation. The piece reveals the danger of surveillance systems that typecast and try to detect different ethnic groups or suspicious individuals, as in the latest computer-vision devices that are being deployed in public spaces around the world. The installation is also an ironic commentary on this era of technological personalization, literally “theming” and “branding” each spectator.
5. For a contemporary reading of the Schmittian concept of the state of excep- tion, see Agamben (1998 and 2003).
6. Le Compte (1887) suggests that tact is associated with sight (Oxford English Dictionary). Although this statement would have to be radically unpacked in order to export it into a politics of touch, it is interesting to note that when dealing with a touch that is constrained by a requisite formality (as tact indicates in its deﬁni- tion), touch is associated with sight. Sight here suffers a radical reduction of poten- tial that can be challenged by Massumi’s exploration of perception and vision in (2002a). Of note in the context of Politics of Touch is the way in which the senses overlap, even when what is at stake is a constraint (such as tact). Even held to their most conservative potential, the senses are synesthetic.
7. The intellect in Bergson operates in a similar fashion: “Life, not content with producing organisms, would fain give them as an appendage inorganic matter itself, converted into an immense organ by the industry of the living being. Such is the initial task it assigns to intelligence. That is why the intellect behaves as if it were fascinated by the contemplation of inert matter. It is life looking outward, put- ting itself outside itself, adopting the ways of unorganized nature in principle, in order to direct them in fact. Hence its bewilderment when it turns to the living” (1983, 162).
8. For a detailed reading of Bergson’s concept of duration, see Deleuze (1988a): “duration is not merely lived experience; it is also experience enlarged or even gone beyond; it is already a condition of experience. For experience always gives us a composite of space and duration.... The two combine, and into this combination space introduces the forms of its extrinsic distinctions or of its homogeneous and dis- continuous ‘sections,’ while duration contributes an internal succession that is both heterogeneous and continuous” (37).
9. Movement and the virtual are interrelated: movement is always toward that which is not yet. Deleuze and Guattari: “Movement in itself continues to occur elsewhere.... Movement has an essential relation to the imperceptible; it is by nature imperceptible” (1987, 280–81).
10. Empiricism refers to the doctrine that knowledge comes through the senses: “In matters of art or practice: That which is guided by mere experience, without