now to the not-yet, from the after to the before to the will-have-come. The incorporeal is not the opposite of the corporeal. It is a stage of corporeality that reminds us that the corporeal is only ever virtually concrete. The body is always what it has not yet become. The body is in metamorphosis. This is the subject of chapter 3, which explores the ways in which the Bible narrates this metamorphosis in the name of touch. In a reading of violence and touch, chapter 3 foregrounds the metamorphosis of the exfoliating body, suggesting that a violence associated with a politics of touch may not concur with the biblical opposition between good and evil. To exfoliate implies shedding layers of skin. It also suggests a process of renewal and transition. To become a body is to alter all conceptions of what a body “is.” Violence here becomes a way of exploring the consequences of invention.
Violence is potentially productive as well as destructive. To touch is always to attempt to touch the incorporeality of a body, to touch what is not yet. I do not touch the you that I think you are, I reach toward the one you will become. There is always singular becoming, but singular in the sense of a collective event, not in the sense of a coded number within a series.
Bodies without Organs (BwO) take central stage in chapter 6, where the consequences of exploring sensing bodies in movement become palpable: If bodies emerge in the act of reaching-toward, creating space-time through a “worlding” that can be violent, can we still conceive of the body as “or- ganic”? Artaud’s concept of the Body without Organs evokes the strange- ness of a body-becoming that is always, in some sense, unreachable, both biologically and conceptually. Politics of Touch will not have been about a body we already know. Chapter 6 asks: If the body can no longer be deﬁned as such, is it possible to secure this body? If the body is always in excess its- self, what “body” is there for the state to secure? These questions mirror the concerns of chapter 1’s dance between national identity and transcultural negotiations of difference: is there a body of the nation-state?
The BwO stands in for the becoming-body, the body that will-have- come. Bodies without Organs do not suggest that you have to divest your- self of your biology. To create a BwO means that you move toward the world in excess of your organs’ organization. Politics of touch are politics con- cerned with bodies that are always qualitatively more-than their internal organizations. Bodies are not discrete entities facing one another in neutral space-time. Politics of touch imply reachings toward the world that create timed spaces and spaced times that themselves create bodies in relation. Bodies interrelate, extending form into matter and matter into form. BwO