not only create relational networks with the world and with each other, these relations themselves become embodied. Bodies incorporate by becoming more than them-selves.
It is in this sense that bodies are machinic. Bodies cannot be measured solely by adding their parts (their organs), thus creating an ambulatory whole. Bodies engage symbiotically, incorporeally, virtually, always becoming more- than they already seem to be. They are as real as they are abstract, as virtual as they are actual. In the words of Deleuze and Guattari, they are abstract machines: they lack determinate form or actual content deﬁnition in any ﬁnal way. BwO are central to a politics of touch because they reinforce the injunction to invent, operating always in the space-time of the “will have been,” a future anterior that discloses the fact that we can never completely latch onto them. Bodies—all bodies—escape our grasp. They are not gras- pable partly because they exceed our expectations of them. Bodies are never quite there. They are not quite there because movement is characterized by its engagement with space-times that have not yet been charted, analpha- betic space-times as yet undisclosed, undiscovered. Bodies are strange ma- chines, machines because they produce extensions of themselves, because they generate systems both in and far from equilibrium, systems that resist strict organization.
An object is in equilibrium when the forces acting on it are such that there is no tendency for the object to move.6 We know that bodies move. Therefore it is not conceivable that they are (always) in equilibrium. Bodies as machines are often far from equilibrium: changes in the surrounding environment cause changes in the system. Far-from-equilibrium systems are metastable, marked by an element of unpredictability, by a capacity for development, for individuation and mutation. Mutation refers as much to the way systems are organized, composed, and articulated as to divergences in those systems. Mutants are bodies by another name.
Mutants connote multiplicity. There is more than one way for a body to become. Multiplicity entails an undermining of the order of the system. Multiplicity is not 1+1. It is 1+ too many to count. The multiple does not simply refer to individuals en masse. The multiple is a rethinking of collec- tive individuation, an agglomeration of Bodies without Organs moving toward each others’ incorporeality. Collective individuation is about more than community. To collectively individuate is to acknowledge the meta- stability of all machines as assemblages, to acknowledge that all communities are made up of more (kinds of) bodies than we can count.