Politics of Touch in every instance tries to resist a repositioning of the body as ontological. Sensing bodies in movement are ontogenetic. They are ontogenetic because they are always in genesis, in a state of potential becom- ing. An ontology of the body presupposes a concrete category of Being. Yet, bodies evolve in excess of their Being: they become. Becoming-bodies sig- nal a certain antagonism within politics of the state. This does not imply that a becoming-body is unaccountable. A becoming-body is accountable to becoming more than its-self. But be careful: there is nothing utopic about becoming-bodies. Ontogenesis is a slippery category: it is that which is not yet. I cannot write the body in advance of its creation, of its movement. The body will remain in an antagonistic relation to its accountability.
Affect plays a central role in Politics of Touch. Affect is not emotion, though it does play on the idea of movement within the word emotion. Emo- tion is affect plus an awareness of that affect. Affect is the with-ness of the movement of the world. Affect is that which grips me ﬁrst in the moment of relation, ﬁrstness in Charles Peirce’s vocabulary.7 Affect is an ontogenetic power of existence. Emotion is the back-gridding of affect.
When we back-grid, we have a tendency to move toward common sense. Aristotle deﬁnes touch as the common sense. He suggests that all senses are embodied through the single sense of touch. Yet touch is anything but com- mon. Touch reaches toward that which is most uncommon: the will-have- been. Common sense as it is usually understood connotes a consensual poli- tics that decides in advance what are the limits of political qualiﬁcation. Common sense takes for granted a strict equivalence between bodies and the state. To be qualiﬁed politically within the nation-state system is to reside within the iterable bounds of citizenship. In this system, territory and iden- tity are conﬂated, assuring strict narratives of national identity that frame the grids of qualiﬁcation that permit us to speak authoritatively about the state as the organization of space and time. Yet, touch exceeds the state, calling forth that which cannot be securely organized. How, then, are we to consider touch and common sense together? See chapter 5.
Democracy is at stake throughout, though dealt with speciﬁcally in chap- ters 5 and 6. To think politics today is probably to grapple with democracy. Within Politics of Touch, democracy is foregrounded as democracy-to-come. Alongside Derrida, I suggest that democracy must be thought in the future anterior as that which remains (and will always remain) to be invented. A politics of touch is an exploration of a ﬂeshy democracy. A ﬂeshy democracy implies a political engagement that is as ﬂexible and unpredictable as the
xxii	Introduction