machines it sustains and builds. This kind of democracy challenges discourses of security as they are maintained in the name of state sovereignty today. Sensing bodies in movement resist codings of state security by complicating the strict boundaries between inside and outside. What is the inside/outside of a skinscape that folds in and out of an exfoliating body? Where is the inside/outside of a collective individuation? If you cannot have a state with- out security, you cannot have a sensing body in movement and a state. Not without control mechanisms to hold a body in (its) place.
States and bodies coexist despite their great antipathy. Re-articulating politics implies rethinking governing structures. Bodies disarticulate states. States live in fear of bodies. This is the subject of chapters 2 and 6. Control mechanisms for bodies abound: gender qualiﬁcations (and disqualiﬁcation), discrepancies between the rights of the homed and the homeless, racial inequalities, border patrols, war tactics, sexual stereotypes, election ﬁascos. Spinoza suggests the concept of the pact to think around the issue of states and bodies. Derrida suggests a politics of friendship. Pacts are about collec- tive individuation, about affect and will. To create a pact is to take a deci- sion within a multitude. A politics of friendship proposes the challenge of creating a relation that cannot be symbolized through a coding in a frater- nal nationalism. To create a pact is to explore the limits of what a body can do. It is to take response-ability for an active engagement with structures that mutate. To live is to risk. To risk is to rethink liberty. Liberty must be thought outside the triumvirate: fraternity, liberty, equality. Liberty can become a risk-taking enterprise that foregrounds the potential within any reaching-toward. Liberty  might  be  the freedom  to  touch,  a politics  of friendship with a sensing body in movement.
Central to Politics of Touch is the notion that to touch is not simply to put organs in contact with the world. Touch foregrounds the senses as machinic assemblages. I would like to think of the senses as prosthetic devices, always more and less than single and singular bodies. To think the senses prosthet- ically, I turn to the concept of originary technicity. Originary technicity suggests that a natural, originary body does not exist. Technology is not something that is simply added to the body from outside. Technology is a supplement, an aspect of the body that adds to it while it qualitatively alters that very body. “The dynamic of technicity will thus be the dynamic of the prosthetic—and thereby the human as non-proper supplementarity—in general” (Bennington 1996, 181). Originary technicity draws out the human, exposing humanity to its prosthetic attachments. Senses can be thought as prosthetic exfoliations of the body’s technicity.
Introduction	xxiii