Technicity interlaces geographic, ecological, energetic, economic, and historical dimensions without being reducible to any of them. Technicity opens the way for a thinking of the consequences of ethology, a concept that emerges in chapter 6. Ethology is an ecological ethics, an ethics that takes into account the process of worlding. Worlding opens the way for a becoming-machinic of the world where I am no longer a passive receiver and you an active giver. Becoming-machinic is not something that happens to the world. Worlding is immanently machinic in the same way that my BwO is always more than its-self. “I” cannot conceive of moving. What moves is the technicity of the body: senses, extensions, matter/form. When I reach out to touch you, I extend the space I have created between me and you. This extension carries my sense perception (my almost-touch) and can there- fore also be considered as prosthetic to my “organic” matter-form. Becoming- machinic is another way of expressing the immanence of Bodies without Organs incessantly creating themselves, for better or for worse.
Sensing bodies might be thought of as posthuman bodies. To be posthu- man is not to be more or less human, nor is it to become a different kind of human. Posthumanity is simply another way of referring to the body’s orig- inary technicity and its prosthetic nature. Endosymbiotically, biology points toward the complexities of bodies in relation. Biologically, even, the body is always less than what it can and will become and more than what we can imagine or foresee. A body that is open to its processes of individuation is a posthuman body. Post: will-have been. To think of the posthuman body is to open oneself to a body-thinking that exceeds the realm of the national body-politic. It is to begin to engage creatively with what a body can do.
What a body can do depends on the expressions our reachings take. Expression is dynamic, altering the inﬁnite combinations of matter-form, matter-content, form-content. An ethics of expression involves producing “atypical expressions” which constitute “a cutting edge of deterritorializa- tion of language” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 99). To think agrammatically is to “bring out the tensile dimension of language by stretching its elements beyond the limit of their known forms and conventional functions” (Mas- sumi 2002, xxii). Agrammatical thinking brings language to its futurity, to its event-ness, drawing it into the realm of the virtual. The sensing body in movement is an agrammatical invention.