of desire. Tango is everything from a dance of solitudes to a nomadic move- ment of cultural displacement to a ﬁerce locator of national identity. It is a dance of encounter and disencounter, a voyeuristic embrace of repressed sensuality and a complex network of (mis)understood directions.
Like all social tangos, the tango I explore here is improvised. Indeed, it is the improvised nature of tango that fascinates me and makes it possible for me to advance tango as an example of a politics of touch. Since the move- ments of tango are always to come, it is impossible to speak of “a” tango, of an ideal gesture or a “contained” politics. Rather, tango operates through- out as an invested attempt to explore relation in the context of a potential politics-to-come.
Although tango could be introduced as the ultimate signiﬁer of Argen- tine national identity, I do not approach tango from this vantage point, preferring instead to locate tango as a transnational crossing of human and political boundaries, as a politics of touch that displaces all notions of seden- tary encounters with an other. For me, tango is a movement across time and space, an errant politics1 that calls out to the night-world to re-orchestrate its systems of governance and exchange through bodies that exist not, ﬁrst and foremost, for the outside world, but for the inner exchange between two silent partners, moving quietly, eyes half closed, toward dawn.
Tango as I encounter it is a peripheral engagement with the world that introduces us to a different way of living with an other. It is a movement that offers the possibility of improvising our encounters. It is a dance that turns us toward an other to whom we might otherwise not speak. Tango takes place on the edges of neighborhoods, at the magic time between dusk and dawn, in the periphery of the social order. Its lyrics are about adventure, heartbreak, the clandestine, the murmurs of desire and deception. Originally a music composed by immigrants to Buenos Aires, tango is a dance that is about a movement between here and there, about an exchange between two bodies, about the pain of disconnection and the desire for communication. A product of cultural exchange, tango has never ceased to transform itself through contact with new cultures. As Ramon Pelinski writes, “nomadic tango resides neither entirely on its own terrain, nor entirely on the terrain of an other” (1995, 18). Yet, as Astor Piazzola comments, “in Argentina, everything can change, except tango” (in Pelinski 1995, 27). Tango is a contradiction in terms: even though tango is a transnational crossing of cultures, for many, tango remains a stable signiﬁer of Argentine national identity. As a result of this paradox, many aﬁcionados of tango resist all