transnational implications where tango is concerned, insisting instead that tango is the unique reference of the symbolic identity and territory of Argen- tine culture.
Despite these echoes toward a politics of Argentine national identity, I maintain that tango involves a transculturation, a state of becoming through alterity. Tango is a movement through politics that both reinforces the sta- tus quo of the politics of national identity and transgresses these very poli- tics. This play between transgression and cohesion takes place in the weav- ing of tango’s complex webs, webs entwined around tango’s implicit desire to communicate, through the body, with an other. A dance that must be re-encountered with every new dancer, tango appeals to the senses. It does so through microperceptual movements initiated through improvisation and spontaneity that require an adequate response yet suggest, always, the possibility of subverting the expected.
Tango is the dance of the impromptu rethinking of the politics of com- munication. Tango is the dream of the known played out in the night of the unknown. It is the politics unwritten, yet the palimpsest on which every- thing political aspires already to have been written. It is the voice of the immigrant displaced through movement. It is the movement of the stranger, echoing in the distant resonance of a music that has many times crossed the world. Foregrounding this improvisational nature of a dance which requests the complete attention of an other, I shall draw a link between the trans- culturation of a movement of desire—tango—and the possibility of articu- lating a politics enunciated through such displacement. This I will call a politics of touch.
Toward the beginning of the twentieth century, tango was born as a music and a dance. Alienated from the Argentine middle class, tango expanded quite quickly in the underworld of Buenos Aires. The expansion of tango took place while Buenos Aires—a city in which more than 50 percent of the population was composed of immigrants—quickly grew from 187,000 to 1,576,000 inhabitants (Ferrer 1972, 146). Argentine society in Buenos Aires at that time was characterized by the presence of an overwhelming majority of solitary men uprooted and socially destabilized by conditions beyond their control. Many of these men frequented cafes and bordellos, ﬁrst for the women, then for the tango (De Ipola 1985, 15).
Tango has never been a dance that could be contained. In the early twen- tieth century, tango travelled to Europe and Asia, and today Finnish tangos are second only to Argentine tangos in their production and dissemination.