In fact, between 1962 and 1965, tango was the most popular musical genre in Finland, and this not for a reproduction of a tango born in Argentina, but for the dissemination of a tango native to the aspirations and disappoint- ments of a very particularly Finnish population. Finnish tangos, like their Argentine counterparts, are passionate, but the Finnish passion is not as polyvalent as its predecessor. Finnish tangos are slow and the dance is meas- ured, described by some as a rigid interpretation and exposition of emotions and social protestation.
From Helsinki to Tokyo to Barcelona to Portland to Rome to Istanbul, tango continues to be danced, altered, exchanged and sent back, changed, to Buenos Aires. Tango expresses itself differently from one environment to another, from one couple to another: most often a heterosexual encounter in Argentina, tango in Holland increasingly blurs gender and sexual bound- aries by challenging and altering the roles of the leaders and the followers. Hence, however adamantly ideologically withheld by those who seek to possess it, tango can be thought of as a music and a dance that lives through ﬂexibility, mutation, evocation, pluralization, and transculturation.
Tango begins with a music, a rhythm, a melody. The movement of the dance is initiated by a lead, a direction, an opening to which the follower responds. Tango is an exchange that depends on the closeness of two bodies willing to engage with one-another. It is a pact for three minutes, a sensual encounter that guarantees nothing but a listening. And this listening must happen on both sides, for a lead is meaningless if it does not convey a response from a follower. As various tango aﬁcionados have pointed out, the lead can never be more than an invitation, as a result of which the movement in response will remain improvised. This dialogue is rich and com- plex, closer to the heart, perhaps, than many exchanges between strangers and lovers.
“Politics,” writes Agamben, “is the sphere of pure means, that is, of the absolute and complete gesturality of human beings” (2000, 59). I want to suggest that tango, a transcultural movement of desire, can be envisioned as a political gesture toward an other. Tango is an exile into the unknowable world of bodies. “The history of the tango is a story of encounters between those who should never have met or between those who, having met, will remain forever disencountered” (Savigliano 1995, xv). This political moment of (dis)encounter is initiated through an embrace that rarely lasts beyond the duration of the tango itself. This encounter, relentless and short-lived, proposes a violation of critical distances, inviting at once intimacy, tension, and conﬂict.