only with my words, but with my senses. Potentiality is at the heart of this reaching-toward. As Agamben writes: “If the ‘thing itself’ in language exists in the mode of potentiality, then it follows that language must originally have the form not of actual signiﬁcation but of the mere capacity to signify” (1999, 18).
The potentiality that is at the base of my reaching out toward an other is not effaced in the passage to actuality. Quite the contrary: in my turn toward an other, I engage with the very potentiality of extending my-self, of chal- lenging my-self to feel the presence (and absence) of that other. Aristotle, on the other hand, would argue that every gesture performed by a citizen (a man) is pre-ordained toward the potentiality of inaugurating a polis, or a plu- rality of like-minded individuals. Yet gesture (reaching-toward) as I am us- ing it here implies something far more tenuous and ephemeral. As I reach toward, I reach not toward the “you” I ascertain but toward the “you” you will become in relation to our exchange. I reach out beyond the pre- constituted time and space of the Aristotelian polis. The Aristotelian notion of the polis seeks to stabilize the experience of encounter still so central to our understanding of the political, conﬁning politics to a space-time that must be governed and contained. I would like to explore the possibility that a politics of touch as a discourse of potentiality-in-movement might func- tion as the very antithesis of this evocation of the state-system.
To imagine a politics that exceeds a state-centered governmentality neces- sitates a vocabulary that resists and subverts the language of the state. Of course, language always carries the traces of coercion as much as those of difference. I am not suggesting, therefore, that I can invent a language that will not, always, in some sense, preﬁgure the system of state-sovereignty and its adjacent vocabularies. Nor am I thinking of language strictly in a textual sense. Tango —the infralanguage I use here—makes this palpable: tango is a cultural artefact that both conforms to the notion of state culture through its insistence of its evocation of performing “the” Argentine national identity and subverts this identiﬁcation to the state through its transcultural movements of desire. Argentine tango thus reminds us that transgressions are porous, leaking both into and out of national receptacles. It is in this sense that tango can become a gesture toward a rethinking of a complex notion of the political, a political that will always be tempted to return to the coher- ence imposed and policed by state systems and their adjacent narratives of national  identity.
Agamben suggests that gesture is “that dimension of language that is not exhausted in any communication of meaning and that, in this way, marks