As a movement reaching toward, a gesture evokes an instance in which nothing is absolutely maintained. A gesture explores the medium—be it the movement, the touch, the word — as a means not of transforming poten- tiality into actuality, but as a way of eclipsing actuality by placing the emphasis on the movement itself, on the exchange. As Agamben writes, gesture “allows the emergence of the being-in-a-medium of human beings and thus it opens the ethical dimension for them” (2000, 58).
A gesture interrupts language in the moments when language attempts to convert itself to actuality. Challenging the notion that being-in-language can be said as such, a gesture draws our attention to the challenges within expression, leading us to the ephemeral realm of the unsayability of words as completed thoughts. In this way, a gesture acts as a force that renders pal- pable language’s instability, challenging language to become an infralanguge of interrelation, where the felt is said even as the said is felt. Gesture re- inforces the fact that communication is not linear, that language cannot be concretely symbolized, that the words that “reach” an other cannot be com- pletely comprehended. Certainly, language and/as gesture can organize a certain version of a polis, but it does so more in the disorganization of like- minded people than by encouraging conformity.3
Gesture as such has nothing to say. It is only relationally that gestures create the possibility for exchange. Gestures negotiate both transgression and understanding. I use a gesture to communicate something to you that I don’t feel I can adequately “say.” What interests me about gesture is not its strict positioning within a politics of touch versus a sovereign politics or in a politics of language versus a politics of affect. I am concerned with the manner in which gesture provides an alternate (and existing) vocabulary of the political. I am interested in the ways in which gestures render unheimlich the “messages” operating within the polis. I am fascinated by the ways gestures provide alternate positionings of means and ends. For, even though gestures can be rehearsed, falsiﬁed, mediated by a consensual thinking that privi- leges certain exchanges over others, even though gestures can be devices of