Touching the Impenetrable
The surface of the body is a thinking, feeling surface. It is a gestural, lin- guistic, sensing skin that protects us while opening us toward and rendering us vulnerable to an other. Our bodies are the bodies without organs of the political, bodies formed and deformed by the division and sharing of commu- nities, of communal and uncommon exchange. Our bodies are resistances— to ourselves, to each other, resistances to knowledge, to language, to sens- ing, as well as to ignorance, to being touched, to being meaningful, to being there. Touching, our bodies gesture toward each other and themselves, each time challenging and perhaps deforming the body-politic, questioning the boundaries of what it means to touch and be touched, to live together, to live apart, to belong, to communicate, to exclude.
Turning to touch as a political gesture, I mean to bring the body to poli- tics differently. Touch connects bodies, human bodies, bodies of thought, intermittently. As a political gesture, touch is an utterance geared toward an other to whom I have decided to expose myself, skin to skin. Touch is an ethical discourse because I cannot touch you without being responsible for doing the touching, I cannot touch you without being responsive. For touch must always indicate its source, and its source can never be identiﬁed by an individual: touch is singular-plural.
Touch reminds us that bodies are impenetrable. It is my surface that I risk exposing when I reach toward you and place my hand against yours. The impenetrability of your body is what initiates this political moment wherein there can be no dream of an original sin, no drowning in a com- plete knowledge, no sense of an ultimate recognition. Touching resists these tendencies, reminding us that all gestures are incomplete, that to reach toward an other is never more (or less) than the act of reaching, for an other cannot be discovered as such. It is only your impenetrability which is penetrable. And this impenetrability is often beyond words, though not beyond language. As I touch you, there is only the saying, the reaching.
What makes touch such an interesting concept is I cannot desist trying to say what cannot be said about the body and my desire to touch it. I cannot