stop touching the speech of the body. Through the gesture of touch, a politi- cal moment is exposed, a moment of transition, a moment of incomprehen- sibility. Within this incomprehension, my body becomes the mode of artic- ulation. My body is the medium through which touch can be negotiated, my body is the receptor for the politico-linguistic-affectual gesture that re- minds me that my body is not one. Touch does not allow me to forget the contradiction of my body which is both “the dark reserve of sense, and the dark sign of this reserve” (Nancy 1994, 20).
Nancy writes: “Sign of itself, and being-itself of the sign: such is the double formula of the body in all states, in all its possibilities” (1994, 21). Wounded by the state, and a wound within the state, the body opens unto itself and unto an other. But the wound also closes itself, thick with scar tissue, anx- ious to touch and be touched, lulled into a commonsense revolution by a policing that holds an other (and its wound) at bay. At the same time, the wound itself lives within the body, resisting the closure of meaning, of sense. It is this resistance, this urge to touch an other, wound against wound, that potentially creates a community of resistance, a complex, disorderly, incom- mensurable community of those who cannot keep themselves from reaching out toward the world.
Offering my-self is always possible. It is a potentiality that can never be conﬁrmed as a ﬁnite act, for there is no offering that is indelible, which takes place without remainder, without return. I offer my body and, in doing so, I open ourselves to receive. Within this relation, new bodies are engendered and shared, bodies of thought, bodies of knowledge. Sense, my sense of your difference, the sensation I experience when I touch your skin, this sense makes sense to me only insofar as it creates a body of work, a growing expe- rience of what it means to receive the gift of touch. Touching you, I begin to write a corpus that deﬁes the Aristotelian polis. This corpus tells a story, plural but not like-minded, of bodies reaching out toward one another, a story of the separation and sharing of bodies, of the transposition of the being-body, multiple, always in excess of its-self, excribed within a corpus I can never quite articulate.
Nancy writes: