as relational rather than as individual, the violence morphs and with it the imaginary of power-as-hierarchy that inhabits state bodies. Sensing bodies in movement produce power, violently, perhaps, but relationally, always. I cannot affect you violently: I affect us. To touch is to violently or gently en- counter a surface, a contour. To touch is to feel the perceived limits of my contours, my surfaces, my body in relation to yours. To touch is to expand these contours, creating new perimeters. We share our surface in the moment of touch, we interrupt our-selves.
“Touching the goal” [scoring] is to risk missing it. But an origin is not a goal. The End, like the Principle, is a form of an other. To touch an origin [to  begin], is not to miss it: it is to properly expose ourselves to it.... We touch ourselves inasmuch as we exist. To touch (ourselves) is what renders us “us” and there is no other secret to discover or to hide behind the touch itself, behind the “with” of co-existence. (Nancy 1996, 32–33)
To touch is to share. This sharing takes place as a trace, a detour, an erring. When I touch you I do not contain the experience within a precon- ceived narrative. To touch is to open us to a story we have not yet heard, to an unworked work,4 a narrative without a beginning and an end. To touch impenetrably evokes this undecidability of/in time and space, a dilemma of the entre-deux that necessitates both a coming-towards and a coming- between. I cannot envelop the space of our sharing. If I cross this space without regard for this sharing, I engage in a violent accosting that becomes a blow. To touch is to conceive of a simultaneity that requires the courage to face the in-between. When I touch you I reach toward that which I cannot yet deﬁne, a worlding of our own creation. This is a ﬁnite effort, an effort ﬁrmly lodged within a creation of our space-time, within a willed present. I am in con-tact with you. “Touch signiﬁes ‘being in the world’ for a ﬁnite being” (Derrida 2000, 161). There is no world without you.