danced, but a myriad of possibilities generated by two bodies, often foreign to one another, touching one another. I lead, you follow, yet even as I lead, I follow your response, intrigued by the manner in which we interpret one another, surprised at the intentness with which our bodies respond to each other.
When we tango, I invent space-time with you, a you that is always singular- plural. The room dances. Sometimes I hesitate and cannot move, troubled by my fear of not reaching you, confused in my intermittent discovery that the body I share with you can be heard through my skin. Always a reference to the exile of its displaced roots, tango is burdened by the sadness of the ephemerality of the encounter with an other who must remain other. Yet, tango can also be the deeply satisfying acknowledgment by an other that I have been heard, if only for a moment.
Tango speaks a complex language, especially when it exceeds a passive engagement with an other. In these instances, tango produces an encounter with an other that challenges ordinary politics of belonging. Reaching toward you, we create a world encapsulated in an improvised encounter that must always resist the notion of a fundamental accomplishment. The politics of touch experienced in and through tango are always, in some sense, inacces- sible politics. Tango is a dance that eludes me even as I move toward you, touching you with my desire to communicate, to inter-relate. Born of dis- illusionment and disorientation, the music and dance of migration and im- migration, of love and loss, tango lends its name to all forms of exile and post-national attachments. There are no origins to this dance that must always return to new begettings, to different and surprising encounters. “If tango has a history,” writes Pierre Monette, “it is all it has: this is why we constantly return to it. This music of the deterritorialized has no other geog- raphy than that of errancy” (1995, 332).
Tango as a political gesture is the exhibition of the between: between my interpretation and your creation, between my lead and your response. Tango allows the mediality of experience to shine through, exposing the ethical dimension in the relation, celebrating the sphere of that which cannot be known. Of course, not all tango appreciates this challenge. Politics is never simple or straightforward. At its most common, tango replays the drudgery of the deﬁned roles of self and other, relishing the segregation of sameness. But even then, tango demands a response, a response that can never be accu- rately predicted.
Tango will remain the dance of the milieu—the in-between. Incapable, like the immigrant, of tracing its roots, tango will never ﬁnds its rightful