call a certain politics of friendship—enables a re-reading through Happy Together of the manner in which bodies challenge the very idea of move- ment, of touch, of sensation.
When the body is ﬁgured simply as discursive, it is held in a place where it can signify but not sense: sense is not something than can easily be cap- tured linguistically. As Brian Massumi writes, “Sensation is utterly redun- dant to [signifying gestures’] description. Or worse, it is destructive to it, because it appeals to an unmediated experience” (2002a, 2). Too often, when we speak of sensation, we stop the movement of the body. This happens because we have delineated the body as a signifying subject in language. In and of itself, this is not a problem. The issue is, however, that when we position the body to signify only discursively, we often stop its movement, placing it on a grid from whence we render it intelligible. But sensation cannot be stopped, and this is the reason it is difﬁcult to render sensation within a linguistic signifying system. To sense, we must cut through time and space, moving, challenging both semantic and geographical bound- aries. Sensation is not a coding of bodies. When we sense we are not pro- ducing a map that will lead us back to an “origin.”
In Happy Together, Wong Kar Wai produces an uneasy map of bodies sensing across time and space. In the work that follows, I explore the poten- tial of sensation to produce what I will call a politics of friendship, a politics of touch that reaches toward an other in a movement of desire. Wong Kar Wai’s ﬁlm enables this dialogue between sensation and friendship, between movement and multiplicity, by refuting all easy engagements with the issues it frames: migration, sexuality, movement, tourism, belonging, home. There will be no easy return, in Wong Kar Wai’s Happy Together, to an original myth of homosexuality, an original begetting of Asian beginnings crossing into the mythologized passions of the tango. What we will locate instead are multiplicities that challenge these very categories by exposing the body not as a point on the grid of experience, but as an experience, a sensation, that creates the chronotopes through which it navigates.
Happy Together is haunted, from the outset, with the impossibility of reach- ing the Iguazu Falls, the ideal tourist journey. In the ﬁrst scenes of the ﬁlm, we watch as Po-Wing and Lai-Yu Fai lose their way, unable to make it to this tourist destination. There will be no idyllic reaching of the falls for these two Asian tourists who recognize already, in their buying of a lamp that mimics the movement of the Iguazu Falls, that the falls exist only as pre-packaged gadgets in stores catering to tourists. Always already recog-