nizant—despite the fact that they as yet have no vocabulary for this gath- ering of time and space—of the challenges of attempting to “enter” time and space rather than creating it, Lai-Yu Fai and Po-Wing hesitantly accept for the moment that the closest they will get to this idyllic rendering of Argentinean nature romance will be through the supremely tacky lamp they buy on their way. In this lamp where the falls are reproduced, they see pictured their dream of new beginnings inﬁnitely produced for the pleasure and consumption of the tourist trade. In this lamp, they see not bodies in movement but a replicated instance of static repetition, a dream of renewed beginnings of perfect symmetry.
“Here we had no idea where to go,” says Lai-Yu Fai in a voice-over, the image in black and white. “Then Po-Wing bought a lamp. I really liked it. We wanted to ﬁnd this waterfall and ﬁnally we learned it is at Iguazu. We wanted to go home after it, but we lost our way.” Losing one’s way becomes the metaphor of Happy Together, and with it comes the stark realization that “starting over” provokes a loss of footing, the impossibility of ﬁnally locat- ing the body in a pre-ordained time and space.2 There will be no “going home” for Lai-Yu Fai and Po-Wing because, already, home has become the ever-falling Iguazu that remains unreachable. What is within reach is a multi- plicity of sensations that will lead Po-Wing and Lai-Yu Fai both together and apart, that will challenge the bonds of their friendship and their love, and relocate both Hong Kong and Argentina within the maps constructed by their desiring bodies moving in and across time and space. “We never did ﬁnd out where we were that day,” continues Lai-Yu Fai in voice-over. “He always said days with me were boring, that we should end it, that one day we might start over.”
“Starting over” for Lai-Yu Fai and Po-Wing is a complex entwinement of the limits of friendship and love, of distance and desire, of treachery and betrayal, since “starting over” does imply locating the place of the begin- ning. If we seek beginnings, we will always ﬁnd ourselves — as Lai-Yu Fai and Po-Wing do—at the tremulous intersection between friendship and frater- nity, between identity and nationalism, between stagnant homosexualized bodies seeking the ultimate experience of “together-ness.” This is the chal- lenge expressed in the ﬁlm, a challenge wherein the body both yearns for and resists a straitjacket of belonging (in terms of gender, sex, nation) that would monopolize this life either as deviant or unique. This is not a ﬁlm “about” homosexuality and its relation to the speciﬁcities of “home.” It is a ﬁlm that questions the very premise that to speak of homosexuality would