be any different than speaking of any other desire across time and space. It is a ﬁlm that cries out for a different way of thinking love, be it in the name of home, of encounter, of experience.
There is nothing unique in this relation between Po-Wing and Fai of friendship and love and yet it is absolutely singular. It is a relation like all others and a relation that plays itself out in the speciﬁc creative dimensions available to these two homosexuals from Hong Kong living in Buenos Aires, a relation that seeks its bearings in the space-time between two mov- ing bodies who desire to move in rhythm with a world that challenges this very idea of motion. This is a contradictory desire that produces a friendship at once homesick for an impossible fraternity (of home, love, friendship) yet aware, ultimately, that fraternity can be nothing but the erasure of the multi- plicity which both men seek, in their very different ways. Via this contradic- tion, a politics of friendship is evoked in Happy Together, a politics of sensa- tion that is not arrived to but toward, which each character hesitantly moves while trying to re-locate himself in a space-time that calls for continued movement and re-positioning.
“Why would the friend be like a brother?” asks Derrida. “Let us dream of a friendship which goes beyond this proximity of the congeneric double, beyond parenthood . . .” (1997, viii). Friendship that might be worthy of the name, that is, a politics of friendship, would be a movement of desire that cannot be symbolized through a coding in a fraternal nationalism. It would be a friendship of and toward sensation, a friendship toward the mul- tiple movements of an other. Not a friendship toward establishing identities of coupling, identities of nationhood and belonging, but a friendship that is always starting over, with all the complexities of a process that can never quite begin nor end. This is not a straightforward friendship, not an easy friendship, not a friendship of ease. It is a friendship that carries as its impos- sible memento the lit image of unreachable waterfalls of touristy romance, the impossibility of deﬁnitively locating one’s-self, either here or there.
A politics of friendship is an unfolding of the space of the crossing, of the gaps between the positions of the grid. Such a politics senses an other, touches an other, rather than simply locating (and imprisoning) an other within its grids of intelligibility. This is not an encounter ﬁrst mediated by linguistic signiﬁcance: there is no “signiﬁcation” which precedes sensation. This is a sensed encounter, an encounter experienced through the body, where it is the body that calls forth the politics and not vice versa. “When a body is in motion,” writes Massumi, “it does not coincide with itself. It co- incides with its own transition: its own variation.... In motion, a body is an