immediate, unfolding relation to its own nonpresent potential to vary” (2002a, 4). Bodies in movement always reach toward one another, hence the dream of “starting over.” Touch is always a process we must begin anew. One of the richnesses of Wong Kar Wai’s Happy Together is the lack of simpliﬁcation in relating this friendship and love affair between the two men, both of whom ﬁnd themselves caught between the need to re-create themselves and the temptation to believe in the lamp’s story of make-believe. While Fai intellectualizes the process, ultimately accepting the “return” home as his way of facing the inevitable loss of the “ideal,” Po-Wing does not suc- cumb either to his dream of the ideal nor to his incessant desire to “start over.” This is not a story of simple beginnings and endings, but a story of multiplicitous yearnings toward love in and across both time and space. It is a story about the incommensurability of Buenos Aires and Hong Kong, of the inevitability of difference in friendship and in love, of the unevenness of translation in and between cultures, of the redundant desire to start things anew. It is a ﬁlm about silences, about the inability to put suffering into words, and about the surprises of friendship with those we might meet along the way never to see them again upon our return to the places we thought
of as our beginnings.
Happy Together is not a democratic ﬁlm, if we understand democracy as a fraternization between those of similar strands of identity. There is no ulti- mate commonality, either in the representation of Buenos Aires, nor in that of Hong Kong. In both places, the decentering of commonality takes prece- dence, whether in the image of Asian boys playing European football in the streets of Buenos Aires or in the upside-down images of Hong Kong. The world has fallen on its head, and with it a politics of fraternization we have come to understand as “the democratic.” What is at stake here is something different, an operation that seeks not to recognize the “friendship/democracy” (the fraternity) at hand, but the creation, the production of the possibility of friendship under another name. This politics of friendship is an act rather than a state, it is a movement toward multiplicity that loves before being loved. As Derrida writes, “One must start with the friend-who-loved, not with the friend-who-is-loved, if one is to think friendship” (1997, 9).
This moving-toward friendship is not an abstract concept. It is in and of the body, it is a movement toward sensing an other, a movement where I reach out to touch you, acknowledging the implicit violence in my act of crossing time and space, an act that can never be present in position, but only in passing, an engagement of our bodies in their indeterminacy. This does not always imply a touching (indeed, touch would be more present in