“love” than in most “friendships”) but it does involve the possibility of touch- ing an other in the here and now. Such a reaching-toward can only be con- sidered a politics (in the proper sense of politics, that is, politics as an encounter with the unknowable) when it is carried out in an indeterminacy that is inseparable from the bodies in motion. I can only touch you in friendship when I allow my body to create a space-time for that friendship by moving indeterminately toward you. In friendship, my body is in passage. With your body, I accept the paradox of the body’s incorporeal dimension: I acknowledge our bodies as sensations of movement, as touch, as the “points of indistinction between violence and the law” (Agamben 1998, 32). “Real, material, but incorporeal. Inseparable, coincident, but disjunct” (Massumi 2002a, 5).
This continuity of movement subverts any idea of a stable body, be it a body-politic or a fraternity, be it a national or a sexual identity. This conti- nuity of movement produces, rather, a multiplication of space-times created in and by the bodies in movement, enabling a desire to keep reaching toward not measure, divided in the crossing, but toward a rhythmic multiplication of space-times. Any positionality in this process is not a stopping but a quality of the movement: the body never stops (desiring). The body moves toward desire as the friend reaches toward an other, this with the knowledge that I am always reaching toward the horizons of my death, of the death of our friendship. The friendship must always start anew, otherwise it is not a friend- ship but an imprisonment of the self as self-same. In a politics of friendship I cannot distinguish between self and other, I cannot position myself as the self-same: within this politics there is no other movement than the com- plexly reciprocal movement toward one-another, a movement that leads us in multiple directions, not always to an other toward whom I thought I was reaching. Friendship is political, in these instances, because it is multidirec- tional, because it does not decide in advance whom and how to touch.
Such friendship gives itself in its withdrawal, in the time it takes to touch. Touch involves a return, a return not to the self-same but to the body as it has shifted through the process of making time and space with an other. This is a politics of modiﬁcation, a politics carried out through an other as much as with an other, a space-fullness that carries within itself the ineluc- table inconsistencies inherent in the composition of timed spaces and spaced times. Friendship challenges linear displacements, offering itself not as a movement from here to there, but as a decision-taking process that reﬂects on everything that remains—and will always remain—to be decided. Friend- ship—a politics of friendship—inhabits the chronotope of the not-yet-