decided through which bodies create them-selves. A politics of friendship is not a certain state, but a quality in and of movement, a “suspended indeci- sion, the undecidable qua the time of reﬂection” (Derrida 1997, 15). Such a politics is a singular endeavor not to collapse an other into the same, but to bring forth the becoming-political of any reaching toward, the becoming- political as sensation, as decision, as choice. This is a politics in process where the question of democracy (of identity, citizenship, subjectivity) is re- posed not in a static manner, but in movement.
The qualities of the political in and through friendship are ontogenetic, that is, equal to emergence. They are not qualities derived in mediation, sec- ondary to other primary qualities. Friendship, in this political sense, becomes the signifying ﬁeld of all other political categories, be they those of gender, race, or sexual orientation, of identity, of multiplicity and territoriality. Here, as Massumi suggests, “passage precedes construction” (2002a, 8). Only afterwards does construction back-form its reality. Gridlocking occurs, but it is a positioning on the grid that continues to displace itself, a potential moving-off the grid, a process of grid-remaking that can interrupt the process of feeding back into static time and space. Ontogenesis here refers to the capacity to emerge, to invite a moving-off the grid that challenges stagnant organizations of signifying bodies. A politics that is ontogenetic is a politics that disturbs ontology, a politics that incites us to remember that ontology is always a process of re-placing the body on the grid. A politics of touch, if we consider that friendship always invites a certain touch, can be con- ceived as a process of de-forming the gridlock capacities of fraternization. By re-connecting (and dis-placing) the points of the grid, and by understand- ing motion not as something that occurs between two points but as that which creates those very points, we can begin to challenge static notions of identity and belonging.
In Buenos Aires, Fai takes a job as a doorman at a tango bar. While he works on the outskirts of the tango, Po-Wing plays on the inside, partaking of the multiple and contradictory strands of desire inside the tango bar. The tango, in Happy Together, is a local space of contradiction, at once a tourist trap (for busloads of Asians) and a local nightclub. It is a place to dance, to love, to ﬁght, to desire, to be friends, a place at once startlingly heterosex- ual and calmly homosexual after hours. The tango bar featured in Happy Together — El Sur —is the nemesis of the Iguazu Falls as much as their reﬂec- tion: tango functions both as the signiﬁer of exoticism and of a transcultural movement of desire. Through an engagement with tango, Happy Together negotiates the complex webs of transnationalism. Tango is at once pictured