as the exotic dance that travels so successfully from Buenos Aires to Asia and back, and as the dance that will always remain resolutely Argentinean. This paradox of tango—with Fai waiting outside and Po-Wing participat- ing inside—is rendered in all of its complexity, leaving us not with a simple image of tango’s Argentine-ness but with the recognition that we must con- tinually be aware that our improvisations will invariably lead us to spaces we cannot yet envisage.
Tango always symbolizes a certain exoticization of an other, brought to bear through external imperial interventions. Even tango’s early history— the fact that it was widely accepted in Argentina only after its adoption in  Paris—calls forth this sense of its early imperialization. Yet, tango as an improvised encounter challenges this model of colonization/imperialism. Tango in Happy Together dances at these two extremes as a provocative example of the unclassiﬁable challenges of improvisation and the concur- rent orchestration of cultural discourses under the mantle of the nation- state. Happy Together provides an unusually rich reading of this paradox, exposing the fact that gridlocking tango never actually succeeds, but it does leave some of us symbolically outside its mechanisms of exoticized unpre- dictability: not everyone can dance tango. This is apparent in a tango scene, where Po-Wing attempts to teach Fai to follow. Po-Wing tries to simplify the complex endeavor of creating a dance together by showing Fai the steps rather than leading them, thus deforming the improvised character of tango. This is no longer tango, but a mimicking of its displacements, a stabilizing of the improvisation, a “following” that is known in advance. There will be an improvised tango by Fai and Po-Wing, but it will only be danced much later, when it has become clear that there is no other possibility for the body to make con-tact with an other than through sensation. My body is not in movement when I still think I can predict my steps.