Certainly, one might argue that Buenos Aires is one of its main points of origin, but tango itself resists so stridently the game of origins that even this is debatable.
Tango as we know it found its debut in the streets and bordellos of Buenos Aires, conceived largely by immigrants searching for a vocabulary to express their place-lessness in their new country. A music and dance born of many inﬂuences, including rhythms of Africa, Europe, and America, its music from Spain, Africa, the Caribbean, Italy, France, and Germany, it is a verb that means “to touch.” No matter how we deﬁne the tango and its “origins,”3 touch never strays from the importance of tango as an improvised encounter with an other as other. Nothing prepares us for this touch, no place, no time, no identity, no sexuality. Interestingly, this touch has remained rela- tively untouched by the rampant exoticization of tango’s movements of desire. For touch as an improvised reaching-toward—a politics of touch—is not easily exoticized, especially if we consider exoticization to be a hierarchical classifying of an other. Touch cannot be subsumed to a single event: touch demands a re-accounting that would defy every such organizing within the grid-forming practices of sovereign signifying intelligibilities.
Through tango, we have a gripping story of the seductions of imperial- ism. In order for the dance to be appropriated, it had to become less the dance of touch, and more the choreographed dance of exotic associations with difference (difference understood here as the stable dichotomous presen- tation of the self-same). A focus on touch and its unpredictable reachings- toward would have been difﬁcult to appropriate and exoticize without endangering the position of the usurper. Hence, what is generally empha- sized in the story of tango is the eroticization of two bodies moving together rather than the improvisational touch necessary to this movement. The story of tango thus becomes halted within images more like that of Fai being taught his “follower’s” steps, than the ﬁnal image of Happy Together where Po-Wing dances with the man in the tango bar, continuously exchanging the roles of leader and follower.
What imperialism requires for its dissemination of power and control is not a politics of touch but a replication of the displacements which would de-politicize this very touch. Tango therefore becomes legendary not as a movement that is political but as one that is thoroughly depoliticized—the exoticized encounter with desire for consummation by busloads of tourists.4 In 1913, Lugones writes: “Tango is not a national dance, nor is the prosti- tution that conceives it” (in Savigliano 1995, 140). To appreciate tango as a transnational movement of desire, it is necessary to acknowledge its disputed