beginnings, its contested origins, and its complicated presents. There have always been contestations where tango is concerned, be it the indignation of the Argentinean elite as a betrayed digniﬁed class, or later the immigrants’ disillusionment when the same upper class re-appropriates the tango as its own once it has been usurped by Paris. The story of tango is fraught with such appropriations, with stilted beginnings and truth-seeking nationalisms, with legitimate and illegitimate births and deaths. There is no “true” tango, be it that which is danced in Buenos Aires, or that which is danced in Fin- land, Nijmegen, Montreal, Berlin. Tango is an improvised movement—at its best and most challenging, a politics of touch—carrying within its sen- sory mechanisms the potential instantiation of a politics that might be called a politics of friendship. Tango is a challenge to fraternization as the maxim for democracy even while it is the dream of a nationally uniﬁed identity. Tango is all of these contradictory movements of desire.
The paradox at the heart of tango’s practices of appropriation and dissem- ination is expressed in El Diario, an Argentinean newspaper, in the early part of the twentieth century: “If tango—already a poor representation... of the national being—was going to stand for Argentina, the Europeans could at least respect the authentic Argentinean practice” (in Savigliano 1995, 140). What we see in this story fraught with “inconsistencies” is a strategy in movement rather than a stable discourse. Interestingly, what is always cast aside in the appropriation of tango for consumption in an exoti- cized state (whether by Europeans, by Americans, by Asians or by the Argen- tines themselves) is the body. What is not considered is the body as the instability within this signifying system, the body in and as movement, the bodies touching, listening, engaging, responding. These multiple bodies are cast aside because they complicate the discourse of tango, because they can- not easily be located on either the grid of colonialism or imperialism, on the grids of intelligibility of nationalism or exoticization. Bodies, when they appear within the discourses of tango mobility, are cast not as conditions of emergence of tango but as re-conditionings of the emerged, where touch is conceptualized (if thought of at all) as a static process that can be calcu- lated and disseminated within a stratiﬁed chronotope. Ironically, despite tango’s exoticization as the true image of sensuality (and even sexuality), there is nothing erotic in this desire-less rendition of pre-fabricated tango. Brian Massumi writes: “Conditions of emergence are one with becom- ing” (2002a, 10). The body is the condition of emergence of space, it is the “retroduction” (Massumi 2002a) of space-time in the crossings of bodies touching. It is the sensation in and of the space-times we create that remain