intervals between our (un)touching bodies. Bodies here are productions, movements, initiating and re-troducing space-time. This is not space meas- ured: “[m]easurement stops the movement in thought... yielding space understood as a grid of determinate positions” (Massumi 2002a, 10). Space- time re-troduced could be thought as a becoming-body of touch, an engage- ment with processes already in motion. Body and object are no longer dis- tinct, they ally in process, traversing space-time, re-creating themselves and/ as space-time as/in movement. This is tango: an event in a politics of touch. As a politics of touch, tango undermines all theories of coherence, ren- dering it inexplicable why certain areas of the world become tangoed and others less so. Tango moves, and through its displacements bodies are instan- tiated. Bodies are in motion, traversing each other, touching each other, lis- tening or not listening to one-another. This is not an idyllic circumstance, it is a learned desire to be aware, awake, attentive to an other as an-other. It is a desire in movement, a desire to know the spaces our bodies create together, a desire to feel the touch, to share the space of touch, to inaugurate a politics of touch that must always start over. It is, largely, a badly paid proposition, an endless moving-in-circles, a walk-that-goes-nowhere, an encounter with the night when “those who do serious work” sleep, a silent moment of reci- procity with someone I will perhaps never meet again. It is therefore not its “usefulness” (in any economic sense of the term) that brings politics to tango, it is its touch, a touch that cannot be categorized, classiﬁed, organized,
deﬁned as anything but the moment-in-passing when I listen(ed) to you.
This touch is, in Massumi’s words, a “miraculation.” It is a sensation that “presents a directly disjunctive coinciding” doubled, always, by an other’s sen- sation (2002a, 13). This movement with and toward an other is a doubling that does not assume my singularity but incorporates it to create an other body. Touch cannot take over my singularity (because my singularity is always more-than one): this protects touch from assimilation or exoticization. In reciprocity—in movement—singularities proliferate. The multiplication of sensation that occurs in this movement of relation refutes strict measure: bodies are always more than one. Bodies fall apart as they fall together, in the interval. “Resonation [is] not on the walls [but] in the emptiness between them” (Massumi 2002a, 14). Bodies in touch resonate, caressing the full- nesses in-between, creating not distance or closeness but movement toward, always toward. This complex dynamic is an event that “remains in continu- ity with itself across it multiplication” (Massumi 2002a, 14).
Tango reverberates and echoes in the lives of two young Chinese men from Hong Kong who remain apprehensive but cannot resist the friendship