and the love that grows and gets crushed between their two impatient bodies. “Seeing Ho Po-Wing again,” says Lai-Yu Fai in voice-over, “I didn’t want to ‘start over’ but return to Hong Kong.” Staged as a situation of either-or, Happy Together places the friendship and love affair between Po-Wing and Lai-Yu Fai as an impediment to a return to the homeland. And indeed it is, if we consider the “homeland” as a place one could return to, unscathed, with the “home” always nostalgically unaltered. Buenos Aires here operates not as the “other” homeland, or even an other home, but as the constant reminder that “home” cannot be reached in any deﬁnitive sense. Worlds are intermixed, as in tango, lacking any deﬁnite points of departure we might want to call origins. Our bodies move, and in so doing, we create temporary places we can call home, but there can be no ultimate return that does not do violence to the multiplicities created in and through our bodies-in- motion. This is not a question of decision-making, but a question of emer- gence, for until we recognize that all homes are of our own making, we can- not decide to return there. We must recognize the emergent qualities of our bodies in motion to understand the ways in which we manufacture the homes of our dreams and our nightmares.
Lai-Yu Fai and Po-Wing seem tied, for the moment, to Buenos Aires. Not because of a desire to play out their romance on foreign soil, but in order to learn that there is no soil that is not, in an important sense, foreign: the soil we understand as “foreign” is also our creation, its foreignness an ally to the idyllic dreams of unity and self-constructed similarity/difference. Lai-Yu Fai and Po-Wing are startled to have to face this paradox between the homed and the unhomed, desperately anxious in the face of the realiza- tion that now nowhere will be “home” in the proper sense (as a unique place of belonging, a national identity, a closed space). “I wanted to go back but I didn’t have any money,” screams Fai. “You regret?” asks Po-Wing. “You fucking bet I do! I had no regrets until I met you, now my regrets could kill me. Why the fuck did you call me?” “I just wanted to be with you,” responds Po-Wing. “Fuck!” screams Fai as he leaves, not even glancing back to Po-Wing who is lying in a fetal position, crying on the bed. This is a scene violent not only in its confrontation between the two men, but also in its realization that there is nowhere to turn now but to the choice of friendship, of incommensurability, of survival. There is no return to a place of origins. Yet Fai and Po-Wing keep returning to one another. Not simply because they love each other, but because they still believe that their friendship and love can offer them a sense of refuge in a world that no longer promises beginnings and endings. A world characterized by movement, an engage-