ment with ourselves and each other that is a politics of touch, this is not a world easy to navigate. It demands a constant awareness, a reciprocity in action and thought, a movement that can become terribly exhausting. It is easier to stop, to buy the lamp, to build walls to keep each other out, to speak of nations and national identity, to speak of difference as though it could be categorized, organized, located in its sameness. The world of move- ment (what other world is there?) is a dangerous world of incommensurable bodies-in-motion, of sensualities and sensings, of difﬁcult friendships-in- process, of miraculation.
The inexplicable, the resonant, the emergent is what is at stake, and very little in the grids of intelligibility of our state-systems prepares us for this loss of ground. Yet, despite our best intentions to steer clear of the unknowable, we experience it, we live it, touching, dancing, reaching out toward an-other. This is the living contradiction of our temporary world- ings: we sense, we feel, and yet we grid-lock sense in the name of politics. Pol- itics deﬁnes itself in this grid-lock where potential—as politics-to-come— is long forgotten. For potential—according to the restraints of sovereign policymaking— is not economical, useful, securing. Indeed, potential is none of these things in and of themselves. Potential is violently relational, in- tensely productive, it is incipient action. Politics of touch are such politics of potential. A politics of touch, a politics of friendship, a movement toward an other, these are emergent political moments that call forth a plethora of sensations that guide the moment without casting it in stone. They are political precisely because they cannot be counted and redeemed as a politi- cal agenda that gives only certain stable bodies a voice. By continuing to confuse the stable with the political, by continuing to think potential only in the strictest of economic terms (where the individual always precedes the relation), by treating the body as simply an instance of the state-orchestrated body-politic, we continue to stabilize (and silence) the body of the political and to exoticize the instantiations of our touchings.
This is where tango comes in, not as a dance in which we must partake in order to recognize the workings of a politics of touch (that would be an exoticization of this rearticulation of the political), but as an example of one of the potential counter-movements of politics today. There are other examples, certainly, including the transgressions of time and space initiated by friends, lovers, and strangers every day. Tango is but a rich enunciation of what might be sought after by those who seek to transgress boundaries of self and other, immigrant and national, homed and homeless, by those who would like to resist the political stagnancy of state politics and inaugurate a