are hierarchical nets of power that lead in the direction of a state-governed understanding of politics rather than towards a politics of friendship. There is no touch in this kind of care, not if care becomes entirely dependent on need. Care, a certain Mitsorge in the Heideggerian sense, must remain reciprocal, even in periods of greatest need, if desire and friendship are to be created. But, as these scenes in the ﬁlm poignantly demonstrate, it is tempt- ing, always, to engage in a relationship of dependence, particularly in an era in which the vocabularies of reciprocity with which we are most familiar are based on parameters of hierarchical positioning. We are given the tools, in a society of fraternity, to understand friendship within the terms of charity, not as a multiplicitous movement of desire that invents new bonds.
Po-Wing’s state of dependence marks the end of the sexual relationship between the two men. Lai-Yu Fai makes a point of marking the separation clearly by setting up twin beds. Every time Po-Wing attempts to transgress this new territorial rule, Lai-Yu Fai condemns him, warning him that he will kick him out of the apartment if he misbehaves. Rules become home- bound, spoken in Platonic vocabularies of belonging. Emotions are orga- nized, calculated, speciﬁed, their locations gathered into perimeters that defy rampant and unpredictable desire. Po-Wing’s familiar phrase, “Lai-Yu Fai, we could start over,” uttered once more in the hospital, no longer carries with it the potential of the unknowable for Lai-Yu Fai. He no longer gives in to Po-Wing’s unpredictability, preferring the imposed cadence of being his benefactor. Now, when Po-Wing utters the words, Fai doesn’t even answer. In silence, the camera moves from the end of one bare hallway to the next, capturing them in black and white, at the end of one corridor, sitting side by side, facing nothing and no-one.
Po-Wing’s inﬁrmity leads to his imprisonment within Fai’s domain. We watch as Fai prepares Po-Wing’s bed, Po-Wing’s head captured on the screen from behind the bed’s cast-iron bars. Fai washes him. “Did you get to see the falls?” Po-Wing asks Fai. “No. Did you?” “I was waiting to go with you,” Po-Wing responds. “We’ll go when I’m better.” “We’ll see,” answers Fai. This exchange signals a change occurring within Lai-Yu Fai, who is not yet able to give up Po-Wing, but already understands that the nostalgic dream of the falls is an impossibility in the world they have created. Ulti- mately, the hierarchical caretaking will lead them to the same place of nos- talgic impossibility as the dream of the falls, but for the moment Fai only seems to understand the one impossibility and not the other. Both caretaking and touristic image-seeking are pursuits based in a discourse of the state, but for now only the more obvious of the two is apparent to Lai-Yu Fai.