The scenes that follow are all colored with the same paradox of the imprint of national vocabularies of belonging on a world that resists being fashioned strictly along territorial lines. Fai seeks an ultimate sense of belonging, which he can only achieve by imprisoning Po-Wing within his web of caretaking. Toward this end, he increases Po-Wing’s dependence on him by stealing his passport and refusing to let him leave the apartment. Po-Wing, with his bandaged hands, somehow represents for Fai the lost home—as much the image of a lost love as of a lost nation: impossible, ungraspable, bandaged. Paradoxically, even as he is caged into Fai’s bondage- house of deceit, it is Po-Wing, despite his faults (his lack of continuity in the friendship and love affair, his promiscuity), who ﬁnally teaches Fai the lesson that the home will remain ungraspable as a stable entity. He teaches Fai tango. However, this is not something Fai can learn, not yet. Lai-Yu Fai must retain the upper hand, but at an incredible loss, the loss of a friend and a lover, as well as the ultimate loss of the dream of home, though that doesn’t sink in until much later.
Friendship that gives and takes time, friendship that survives the living present, is a movement of desire that depends on the unknowability of an other. What Fai tries to steal from Po-Wing is his freedom, but even in tak- ing his passport, all Lai-Yu Fai actually manages to take from Po-Wing is his friendship. For freedom is not so transparent as to exist solely in appearances of dependency such as those of citizenship and inﬁrmity. Freedom may be the opening toward friendship. Friendship is not about home, about identity, about ethnic similarity or cultural appurtenance. Friendship is that which retains unknowable potential because it remains other, unknown, of the pres- ent yet-to-come. The impossible schism between democracy (as it is lived within the state-system) and friendship thus becomes apparent: democracy cannot live up to its name without constraining friendship to fraternity. How can a politics of friendship and democracy be reconciled?5 Derrida writes of this paradox: it is “tragically irreconcilable and forever wounding. The wound itself opens with the necessity of having to count one’s friends, to count an other, in the economy of one’s own, there where every other is altogether other.... But where every other is equally altogether other” (1997, 22).
If we understand the political as that which operates in the space of indis- tinction between friendship and democracy, in the interim space-time between alterity and counting, between the counted and the uncountable, we locate both friendship and democracy-to-come as a certain politics of touch. When friendship becomes a question of touch, a question of a poli-