tics of touch, we can situate friendship as that which must function in the “to-come,” in the “perhaps,” in Lai-Yu Fai’s “we’ll see” or in Po-Wing’s “let’s start over.” But the perhaps is not all there is to friendship, nor is the per- haps, as such, enough for politics. What is also necessary is touch, a move- ment of desire toward an other, a re-engagement with sensing bodies in movement. This is why Fai’s “we’ll see” and Po-Wing’s “let’s start over” lead neither to a continued desire nor to a politics of friendship. It is not enough to want to return to the same. We must be willing to return to the not-yet- invented. Touch in its unpredictability and reciprocity—a rigorous politics of the unknowable—is necessary. Otherwise, both the “let’s start over” and the “we’ll see” are statements of elision, of lack of courage in speaking hon- estly about a future that is not to come, as is the case between Po-Wing and Lai-Yu Fai. What Wong Kar Wai signals via these transitory statements is the paradox of the perhaps, that is, the many processes of negotiation that occur in a world in which multiplicities invade the straightforwardness of closeted “identities.” Po-Wing and Fai explore and challenge the bounds of friendship, love, and ultimately, politics. Their failure, in the case of their love affair, is their lack of con-tact, the impossibility of touch as creation. With regard to friendship, Derrida writes: “The possibilization of the impossible possible must remain at one and the same time as undecidable— and therefore as decisive—as the future itself” (1997, 29). Friendship must be thought as an eruption in time and space, a rupture in movement, rather than a point on a grid. It is an interruption because it leads bodies in motion in new and unexpected directions, in a suspension that calls forth an other. Friendship is a movement of desire that threatens to make us lose our bal- ance. It is a movement that eludes consistency while redeﬁning this very concept. Friendship is a relation of permanence that deﬁes the permanent, a presence that must remain an absence, an existence that grows bifurcated like a rhizome erupting at the frontiers of chance and necessity. Friendship is a politics of touch not because it incites us to touch, but because friend- ship knows no other way of taking place than in con-tact, in a placing of oneself into the space-time of an other, a reaching for an other’s place, a
touching of that place initiated in the process of reaching-out.
Friendship, as Derrida suggests, is a certain “telepoesis,” a poetic reaching toward, that which speaks to and at a distance, a poetics of distance at one remove. Friendship is “an absolute acceleration in the spanning of space” (Derrida 1997, 32). Friendship is the miraculation of time and space. Friend- ship, at its most political, is the rethinking, the resensing of body, subjectivity, and social change in terms of movement, force, and violence. Friendship is