never becomes encapsulated in a gridlock without losing its emergence. There is no desire that survives the grid. Desire is the unreachable in the effort to reach toward. Desire is the movement of intransigence necessary to the continuation of any movement, of all movements, and hence of all poli- tics and all touch. A politics of touch is at once a politics of movement and a politics of desire. A politics of friendship, in turn, is a politics of touching desire in movement. Love, perhaps, is the extreme form of this kind of politics.
To think about the body is to think about desire in movement. Sensa- tion is the embodiment of this desire. Desire exceeds the “meaning” of the body because it is continually in movement, in process toward the explo- ration of yet another desire. Desire is insatiable. Desire is the becoming of friendship, the ﬁeld of potential for a sensory meeting between two bodies. Desire is their ﬁeld of immanence.6 Desire is not linear, but a constant re-organization of emergent chronotopes of time and space. As Massumi writes, “It is only by leaving history to reenter the immanence of the ﬁeld of potential that change can occur” (2002a, 77). Change occurs within this immanence, this “perhaps” that is disconsolately dizzying and excruciat- ingly exciting. And it is this “perhaps” that continues to pull Po-Wing toward Fai despite the apparent closure of Fai’s all-knowing “we’ll see.” This “perhaps” is conﬁgured, in Wong Kar Wei’s Happy Together, as the tango.
If Fai’s caretaking was an attempt to domesticate Po-Wing, it goes terribly wrong. This is apparent is Po-Wing’s ultimate escape to the night world as well as in Po-Wing’s response to Fai when Fai himself gets sick. Po-Wing does not want to be the caregiver. Certainly desire can survive and even ﬂourish in a caring relationship, but when caregiving forgets reciprocity to instill a hierarchy of power, desire is left by the wayside: desire wants noth- ing to do with hierarchies of consumption and dependence. Hence, we are increasingly faced with a relationship between Fai and Po-Wing in which the asymmetry of desire and caretaking never quite allows them to come together. As Wong Kar Wai demonstrates, desire is slippery and is perhaps most challenged in situations of need and loss of footing. When Po-Wing is sick he seeks care through desire, and when Fai is sick, he seeks desire through care. A stinging example of this dynamic takes place when Fai lies shivering and sick in bed and Po-Wing complains that he hasn’t eaten in two days and asks Fai to prepare some food. “Are you cold-blooded or what, asking a sick man to cook for you!” exclaims Fai as he gets up to serve Po-Wing.