So many mistakes and misunderstandings occur in Happy Together, not least of which is Fai’s acceptance of the victimized position as cook and ser- vant of Po-Wing. But desire is not silenced so easily, even now: it is in one of the following scenes that tango makes an entrance between the two men. This ﬁrst and last tango—an ambiance that will return later in the ﬁlm— seems to be a ﬁnal attempt to evoke their bodies through an unpredictable movement of desire. Unfortunately, too much has been destroyed in this friendship to be able to salvage their love affair, though feelings of closeness seem to remain until the end. Tango’s emergence is therefore true to its form: an emergence of the possibility of touch without return. As it is wont to do, tango makes no promises, especially not the promise of desire. Tango is about touch, which is about movement, which is about desire, but this is not a promise of possession or culmination: it remains a desire to move. Bodies in movement speak to one another as only bodies can, in and across space, promising nothing but this movement, this listening to a moment in space-time. It is essential to recall this when thinking of a politics of touch in order not to fall into the trap of attempting to domesticate either move- ment or desire through touch. Touch is temporary, it is an event, an invita- tion, and a response. Tango is but one instance of that reaching-toward.
The beginning of the tango scene has Po-Wing leading Lei-Yu Fai into a back step, neither one of them really listening to each other. In frustration, Po-Wing tells Fai to practice his “steps” alone (a sure sign that it is neither tango nor touch they are practicing at the moment). In the following scene, we cut to the sounds of Piazzola and the dock area of Buenos Aires and then return to the kitchen where Po-Wing and Fai hold each other, dancing something between an embrace and a tango, kissing. This sensual moment between the two men, something we have not experienced since the ﬁrst scene of the ﬁlm, frames, momentarily, the touch that has been missing since Po-Wing’s hands were bandaged and Fai refused to touch him. This scene is a recalling at once of the desire of touch in love, in friendship, and our dis- consolate ability to be in proximity without contact, without movement, without desire, without touch. This scene recalls the difference between friendship and fraternity.
Might we conceive of friendship as an improvised tango? What would a friendship be like that delineated clearly between the speaker and the lis- tener? What would a friendship be that wanted to possess movement, stop- ping it in its tracks? Is a telepoesis not a calling forth of poetry at a distance, a withdrawing that produces an event, a coming-together in the reaching-