commendable in  spirit,  we're  frequently left  with  a  tired  aesthetic subsumed under the strict pedagogical aim of communicating that very message. Lost in the communication is the possibility for an experimental film form  immanent to the politicality of the event  – a film form  with  a non-didactic mode  of address, that
‘subjects’ its spectator around the film’s very  lack of information. Such a mode  of subjection initiates a mode  of questioning that  won’t  take  a final  answer for an answer.
I wouldn't bother to  foreground how  Mettler's work  differentiates itself from  this  expository tendency that  structures itself around the  communicability of ‘political  issues’  if it  were  not  for  the  fact  that  Mettler  has  made  the  most prominent of activist  documentaries on the Alberts  tar sands – a subject  that  has lent itself to so many  documentaries of this expository type.  Petropolis: Aerial Perspectives  on  the  Alberta  Tar  Sands   (2009)  features  Mettler’s   understated voiceover removed from  all  penchant for  directives, his  lingering camera that refuses  to cut  on action,  and  his propensity to take  the  longest  shot  possible in order to  evoke  the  impossibility of perceiving a given  political  totality. These formal   strategies  co-compose to  produce  a  socially   committed  documentary which  suggests that  the crafting of techniques that  could  lead  the way  out of the ecological  crisis  embodied by the  tar  sands is intimately bound up  in the  very (im)possibility of perceiving the sands and  their  effects in their  totality. Petropolis proposes that  one  of  the  many   tactics  for  stopping the  tar  sands project  and growing the political  will to construct viable  green  alternatives for global  energy production lies in finding the  artistic  means  for expressing the  infinitely large. Mettler  is all too aware of representation's limits  in this regard, he expresses the infinitely large  by making it felt, not  by making it frame-able content. Mettler’s camera enacts  this  thought-in-motion by adopting an  aerial  perspective from  a helicopter, by sweeping great  breadths of exploited terrain below,  by accessing the  most  ‘unnatural of perspectives’ in order to understand the  most  vulgar of manipulations of the ‘natural world’; in other  words, by aiming to make  felt the visually and  representationally ineffable:  the ‘ecological-political’ situation in its entirety. In making felt that  which  lies beyond the field of vision  and  beyond the realm  of representation, the constraints of perspective are used  as enabling constraints to foster a political  re-imagination of the possible.