Despite Mettler’s  preoccupation with  the limits  of the frame  and  what  lies beyond it, a trait  that  can at times  can lend  itself to a meditative, bordering on supernatural tone, his cinema  remains secular  and  sober.  Documentaries such  as Picture of Light (1994), which  films  an  escapade to  see  the  northern lights  and Gambling, Gods and LSD, which  tracks  peoples’ search  for altered states  of consciousness, never  spin off from the real of the social into the transcendental of the sublime. I would say that  Mettler’s  aesthetic borders on the scientific  if only the  essence  of his  approach wasn't so opposed to  being  bound by  hypothesis. Somewhat  like  a  microscope  or  telescope,  Mettler's  camera  brings   into   the spectrum of human perception visions  otherwise beyond its unaided capacity for sight  (like  a time-lapsed sequence of the  northern lights  captured by leaving a camera outside in arctic temperatures overnight). Yet in dwelling on what  can be seen via technological intervention, Mettler's camera maintains a keen  sense  that what  is contained and  presented by the  frame-bound image  is never  enough to come to any hard and  fast conclusions (whether they be scientific, social, political or  otherwise). Not  because the  image   is  imbued with   an  inherent, medium- specific lack – a mourning for the reality  it can only represent via the mediation of the  apparatus  –  but   because  the  limit  of  perception that   renders  perception operative must  also  delimit, abstract out  a perception from  the  totality of the world perceived. The inability to ‘see all’ either  with  our  own  eyes  or with  the aid of a camera need  not be lamented. For as Mettler  demonstrates, the outside of the  frame,  the  more  than  is perceived, necessitates the  perpetual resituating of oneself,  and  one's  perspective vis-à-vis  the world in order to come to terms  with the more-than of one’s environment. Resituating one’s perspective in the face of the more-than of one’s perception then  functions as an auto-critique of the self’s will to scopic omnipotency. If the ability  to see the world with  absolute clarity  is foreclosed, aesthetically rendered an impossibility in line with  the inner  limits  of perception, then  so too is the possibility of the standardized subject  who  was  to be the  recipient of the  didactic approach to expository documentary. And  there lies in this  foreclosure a kernel  of truth not  at all connected with  the  indexical veracity of photography, but rather a truth about  the limits  of the act of (cinematographically) bearing witness, of  having been  a  participant who  was made   felt  in  the   becoming  of  a  political   ecology.   In  making  felt  that   the