jemason[9:56 AM]
this is a rough idea, and perhaps folks will want to complexify or augment aspects that fall too much into old logics. trying to dance here. Also, i'm very into what the bots potentiate (as far as I understand), so the following is more focusing on how our getting into that magmatic zone might be a beginning engine to capturing value in order to offer it as a market for speculation in its own right. So, speaking most nuts and bolts for description's sake, what I'm thinking from above is that there could be an automated monthly offer of money from your, my, our bank account. The collecting mass has a one week holding pattern (held in escrow) - its not seen as the mobilizer but as one expression of what's already happening. The collective expresses its interests (like it does already), proposes things, responds to messages, goes to reading groups, and the as the week ends up (an enabling constraint), the money goes into magma along with the dividuation of that week's research creation without any kind of commensurability suggested or relied upon between the money and all the research creation. Instead of money being the lbidinal pull, we make money vulnerable to the making in the midst, giving it a week to heat up and ready itself for its transformation into magma. its a ritual to lose our individual selves again and again. its a therapeutic with a fire touching the thing that keeps us locked in individual persons: money as a store of value in and of itself. we had it wrong before, money doesn't draw us into circulation, circulation draws us and money into transformation from individual to dividual. and it happens regularly because we are getting pulled back into individuality regularly (and those joining, investing, learning, those new, they/we are all at different speeds).
The next idea is how to take the movement of that money and capture a derivative market on it, recognizing that in order to do so with satisfaction, the very logic of what is derivative needs to be re-engineered for our purposes. One benefit of this is that we wouldn't need a big thresholding on the back end, as it would be smuggled out matrixially (sic?) any thoughts on that would be oh so welcome as it should be possible but i don't know at the moment how.