erintango [10:05 AM]
but how would they become deindividualized once individualized? Reading these excellent pieces (I read most of the book on the plane yesterday), my sense is that the example I can work with most easily is that of the slum in Mumbai. On p. 33 Appadurai writes about how the slum dwellers resist the concept of individualism (and refuse to align themselves to categories such as class, race etc), seeing themselves instead as dividuals (and this is their activism). For me that's a more rich place to begin. With Appadurai I could really see how the examples could begin to allow us to think a more complex value differential. The struggle I had with Meister (whose work I much appreciated - this is truly a fantastic book!) was that I felt he couldn't think outside the circle (despite a very strong desire to do so).  For instance, he writes: "One way of describing the present situation is this: People produce  information and need money, but they are subject to surveillance and precarity that make them the easy prey of fi nancial and governmentalinstitutions. These claim to offer people better choices in a dangerous world. Our problem is to fi nd a popular (indeed universal) truth of this situation that is inexpressible within our present situation. The expres-sion adequate to our condition would require real change rather than a mere unfolding of present tendencies" (172). >>> What worries me here is the claim to a return of universal truth. I don't think there is a need to return to (or accept) value as it has been expressed by capital (and taken up in our institutions). Of course, in order to orient toward something, else, we need to understand how it works, and that's why we've spent the last 3 years understanding the concept and seeing the ways in which it can orient toward an ethico-aesthetic paradigm that carries life differently.  I think Meister really wants to be able to think change beyond "a mere unfolding of present tendencies" but I would argue that to do so you really have to think beyond present tendencies, which I don't really seem him doing. In a sense I see Robert doing that more (and Ayache, in this collection, doing it less). So what I think we're looking for is everything but a thresholding into magma. What we're trying to invent (at least what I think we're trying to invent) is a thresholding out of magma which delays individualization until the very last moment, thereby shifting the conditions of how surplus value (and value tout court) is created. I don't share Ayache's idea that everything is a market (if I did I wouldn't want to get beyond transaction with the passion that I do) so for me the question is how do we build otherwise-than-a-market and how does that compose with the necessities of the transduction into capital (because we do have to pay rent). Is transduction (and not exchange) possible?
(Joel, that was a response to your first part!)
now, for the second part.