mm[11:05 AM]
What I’m thinking is: let’s say you bring money in and build a pool of money and then find ways of experimenting how else it can move and find peaks of transmuting and get distributed in terms of qualitative conditions or other conditions that we still don’t know. I still feel something from this could only move through the prize value or through sharing what we HAVE. Which in a way I sense already happens in the “Today I can invite for coffee for some people and tomorrow I receive a person living in my apartment”. Then what I would say is, what if instead of bringing money to the pool of experimentation you bring thinking, a thought; perhaps moving from a different affective tonality. But I may be so wrong, perhaps playing with money would teach us something in experimenting techniques. Yet, for some reason, I feel more inclined to experimenting with other things than money, for now, perhaps. We are still experimenting with value economies are we not? Like there’s a part of me that thinks that if money stays peripheral, like it comes and goes and pays for living (rent, food, etc.) yet it is not assigned in equivalence with events’ activities or quantified actions. That’s what we’re trying to think together no? A how to of the conditions for the transmutation of value. From money to event (this is an absurd oversimplification) and back yet we need to think the EVENT very strongly no? Like money is so embedded in our lifes already but I think when it comes to event forces we still don’t know how to tend to those ingling qualities in the making. Like we’re trying with the bots-thinking, yet. What we’re trying to do is a little before that, in terms of crafting techniques for the qualitative morphations. But perhaps the other steps are also important. This thought is coming out all wrong, Sorry for that, hope some edges do some work though. Mhhhh. Let’s see, if you bring money in to experiment with, I would personally tend to treat it as a material. I would then perhpas take some sissors and cut it into small pieces and then put it together to see what that does. And somehow I think that a work through materiality is still so new in the senselab as a taknig things with our hands and experimenting, like that happened during DTI and anarchiving and there you can see all kinds of experimenting techniques in the making and what they do or they don’t, there’s so much learning there that I think also feels wasted if not attuned to. (Not really wasted but something like that). Sorry about this babbling.