[11] Brian  Massumi’s  book  Parables of the Virtual  has  influenced my  thinking considerably, as the  latter  sections  of this  chapter make  clear,  and  the neurodiversity movement has  much  to learn  from  it. His  attention to how  the senses  produce the real makes  room  for other  generated realities that need  not be pathologized. By showing the  virtual aspect  of all sensory experience, he levels the  neurological playing  field,  and   he  invites   us  to  reflect  on  other   sensory possibilities. Consider this  passage about  vision;  notice  how  it puts  enormous pressure on a central,  contrived distinction: “If vision  is always contaminated, at the very least by multisense pastness, then  the answer to the question of why waking…bodies do not hallucinate has to be reviewed. Or rather, the blanket assumption that  they  do  not  hallucinate needs  rethinking….   What  is actually seen is productively added to it: overseen. Objects of vision  are added ingredients to  experience:  experienced  oversights  or  excess  seeings.   In  a  word, hallucinations. This is in no way to imply  that  they  are unreal or simply illusory. Quite  the  opposite, the  conclusion is that  hallucination is as real  as any  thing. More  radically, hallucination—the spontaneously creative addition of objects  of perception that  are  not  found preformed ‘out  there’—is  generative of  reality (more  reality).  Vision gives back more  to reality  than  it is given.  It is not possible to sustain a strict  distinction between perception and  hallucination” (Massumi
2002:  154).  With   respect  to  classical   autism,  a  crucial   question  emerges.  If “multisense pastness” intrudes much  less in classical  autism, as a result  of the autist’s intense attention to detail  (or what  the experts call “local”  as opposed to “global” coherence), then  what  is  the  status of  what   is  seen,  heard, touched, tasted, etc.?  Put  differently, how  to  reconcile  classical  autism’s  relatively pure sensory knowing with  the  obvious scrambling of input that  so many  autistics speak  about?