Against method is not simply an academic stance. Much more is at stake here. How you get where you are is an operative question. What models model you? What else can be created, sympathetically, in the encounter? What kind of metamodeling is possible, in the event? What can a minor gesture open up? These questions cannot be abstracted from the question of value as it is defined by current capitalist practices, practices that take knowledge as an instrumental aspect of added-value or, in the artistic realm, prestige-value. How do we operate transversally to such capitalist capture? What new processes of valuation can be explored, and what will be the effect, for knowledge, of such experimentations?
New modes of valuation make apparent the cleft in the very question of what constitutes knowledge, making felt the share of unknowability within knowing. To attend to this cleft in creative and generative ways, we must engage not only the register of conscious knowing, but also that of the in-act of intuition at the edge of the nonconscious that makes felt the ineffability of the event’s middling into experience. A leap must be made, and it is a leap that is undoubtedly disorienting. “He who throws himself into
the water, having known only the resistance of the solid earth, will immediately be drowned if he does not struggle against the fluidity of the new environment: he must perforce still cling to that solidity, so to speak, which even water presents. Only on this condition can he get used to the fluid’s fluidity. So of our thought, when it has decided to make the leap” (Bergson 1998: 193). Research-creation embraces the leap, and radical empiricism proposes a technique to compose with it across transversal fields of inquiry. What emerges across this cleft cannot be mapped in advance. “Thousands and thousands of variations on the theme of walking will never yield a rule for swimming: come, enter the water, and when you know how to swim, you will understand how the mechanism of swimming is connected with that of walking” (Bergson 1998: 193). Making and thinking, art and philosophy, will never resolve their differences, telling us in advance how to compose across their incipient deviations. Each step will be a renewal of how this event, this time, this problem, proposes this mode of inquiry, in this voice, in these materials, this way. At times, in retrospect, the process developed might seem like a method. But repeating it will never bring the process back. For techniques must be reinvented at every turn and thought must always leap.