The minor gesture acts as intercessor to the major, for the major is never fully itself: it is continuously cut through by flows that expose it to its minoritarian tendencies. In the context of the art exhibition, I would like to explore this question through the use of the multiple. I have come to wonder how the gestures both minor and grand are active within the specter of the multiple, an artistic tendency in the past century that has had a strange persistence in our contemporary artistic landscape. What does the foregrounding, in an artistic context, of the multiple do? Is it that the seriality
of the multiple shifts the role of the object-as-such? Is it that the multiple activates space in a way that reorients the artistic experience? Does the making of the multiple, in cases where it involves a repetitive and almost ritualized crafting, create a particular sense of duration? I think here of the many hours in my own art practice spent making objects that resemble one another—the two thousand pieces of fabric, for instance, from my work Folds to Infinity, which took me seven years to sew—and I wonder to what extent it is less the object that matters than the ritualized gestures that compose it, hour after hour, year after year?1 Does this ritualizing activity facilitate the shift from the multiple to multiplicity, from the countable to the more-than?
This question takes me to the active passage between ritual and rituality, rituality here connected to everyday repetitive practices that activate a minor transduction in the event, and ritual understood as the more formalized techniques carried through generations that mark rites of passage in a given culture, reorienting not only the individual but the collective as a whole. Rituality is the return, through repetition, to a task that, despite its habitual nature, is nonetheless capable of shifting the field of experience. The morning coffee that opens the way for the day to begin. The cleaning of the desk that creates the conditions for a day of writing. The breathing techniques, for the performer, that facilitate the shift from the street to the theater. Rituality, like ritual, performs a shift in register that opens the way for new modes of becoming. Is rituality also capable of generating a shift in kind that opens the everyday object to its more-than?