A movement of thought is elastic. It always begins in the milieu, in the midst of experience. This is another way of saying that it begins in movement. For the world is nothing if not in continuous movement. In Kedar’s narration of experience, this kind of thinking is of no use-value. It simply doesn’t add up to anything. But that’s because so much is at stake in his need to convince those around him that he can think. This urgency is partly due to his long history of being treated with Applied Behavioral Analysis (aba), still a far too common therapy for autistics. The interventionist model of aba assumes that the autistic’s way of moving must be eradicated, thereby denying the complexity of thought-movement that takes place in the movement-dance of autistic perception. Kedar writes: “Each day the experts denied me hand-flapping but I had no other outlet for my feelings. . . . In the aba years I lost hope. . . . I longed so badly to be able to make my ideas known. I got flashcards instead. ‘Touch your nose.’ ‘Touch tree.’ ‘Touch your head.’ ‘Do this.’ ‘Sit quiet.’ ‘Touch red.’ ‘Good job.’ ‘Hands quiet.’ ‘No.’ ‘Great.’ ‘No.’ ‘Great’ ‘No.’ ‘All right!’ ‘No’” (2012: 58).6 Further along in the book he continues: “Some people prefer not to see the truth. If I’m doing what I do it means others can too. If they refuse to see it, they don’t have to change how they teach kids. . . . I guess that watching the films [of me communicating] and asking my therapist questions would be too risky. Someone might get convinced that a retarded autistic kid was really intact in thinking. That would mean that they would need to see autism in a new way. Can’t let that happen. Suppressing alternative viewpoints is better” (2012: 79). This history of not being believed, of having to prove his intelligence over and over again, leads Kedar to privilege cognition over autistic perception, situating his native way of thinking-feeling on the lower rungs of worthwhile ways to live. But all of this doesn’t deny the complexity at work in his movements of thought: Nature isn’t neat or orderly. The grass is waving this way or that. The branches are crooked and gray and gnarled. The path is lopsided from rivers of rain and erosion. The plants grow in random places. I see no pattern, unlike a landscaped lawn. I fit in so well. I am so at home in the messy beauty of nature. I see the system is messy, but it works and it is wow. I see my illness this way. It’s not pretty. It is messy. It has erosion and rivers of mud too. But it is part of nature in the same way. (2012: 119)