A politics in movement is a politics in the making allied to an activist philosophy. As Brian Massumi defines it, activist philosophy is concerned with “coincident differences in manner of activity between which things happen [where] the coming-together of the differences as such—with no equalization or erasure of their differential—constitutes a formative force” (2011: 5). The activist philosophy I am proposing here is neurodiverse. This means that it cannot be contained within the limits of neurotypical experience. Neurotypicality, as I argued in the introduction, is as much a construct as any other identity politics, and yet it is perhaps even more insidious, for, in most cases, it remains almost completely backgrounded in experience. We learn so early that body and world are separate, that intentionality trumps mutual determination, that intelligence is defined by rationality, that thought is conscious and ideally linguistically articulated, that sitting still is necessary for learning, that daydreaming is a waste of time, that the edgings into perception that distract us (or, more likely, attract us) are hallucinations, that the act belongs to a subject, that we often don’t realize to what degree neurotypicality works as the very definition of human existence.21 Nonspeaking autistic Amelia Baggs writes: If we were real people, killing us would be bad, and killing ourselves would be unfortunate rather than something people build special laws to enable. If we were real people, the world would be designed in a way that allowed us to move through it without extra obstacles thrown in our way. If we were real people, people would see us as individuals, rather than heroes, tragedies, inspirations, or representatives of our entire impair-
ment group. If we were real people, then giving us proper medical care would never be seen as pointless. If we were real people, the whole myriad range of disability stereotypes would look flimsy and silly because people would see us as we are.
Of course we’re already real people. But the problem is that so few people have noticed.