As I will outline in the next chapter, to continue down the road of activist philosophy, it is necessary to go to the heart of why volition does not define experience, and to explore further how agency, as tied to intention and will, has served not to bestow power but to parse the world into subjects and objects, thereby startlingly disempowering difference. An activist philosophy involves diverging from the intentionality-volition-agency triad to become attuned instead to the art of participation that is life-living. An activist philosophy begins from the perspective of the more-than, where the as-yet-uncharted movements of agencement are at their most operational. Here, in the midst, an important task of an activist philosophy is to attune to the ways in which ecologies settle into (trans)individuals. These individuals, these speciations, mark how an event has resolved into an act. Speciations are not created to last. But their passage makes a difference. An activist philosophy is interested in how their appearance into existence alters the quality of the event’s coming-to-be. For, how an event comes to be, how it occasions, is its value. This is not about value-added in any capitalist sense. For what speciations bring to experience is a valuation of process in the event, not an external evaluation of form. Inasmuch as an activist philosophy directly engages with neurodiverse forms of life in their
emergence, with speciations in-act, it is a philosophy of value. Speciations are rhythmic activations of an ecological body that never precede the event of their coming-into-relation. They give rhythm, give tone, to the how of the event’s in-forming, cutting across the idea of species fully formed. Speciations are never one thing—think of them instead as complex tendings, as conglomerates of activity. They are not categories, and their taking-form cannot be separated out from the event of their coming-to-be. In their taking-place, in their chunking as this or that, speciations nonetheless never quite resolve into an identity. This is because the collectivity at the heart of the ecology that defines them remains active, participatory, even in the occasion that settles the act.