Carrying is everywhere present for Blackman—in the act of writing, in the walking, in the eating, in the sensing, in the perceiving. It is not a value judgment on experience, but an articulation of how experience feels, and how it fields: carrying is the expression of the relational force of movement-moving in terms of how bodies and worlds co-compose. Carrying, as the more-than, is therefore also what makes many tasks difficult. For Blackman, for instance, it comes with seemingly infinite sensory confusion and overstimulation. Most of her experience, after all, is of autistic perception, a term she uses herself. Autistic perception, for all its exquisite opening toward experience in-forming, is also an often prohibitive barrier to a neurotypical world. This is because, as I have mentioned throughout, autistic perception does not parse out or select as easily from the welter of co-composition. Autistic perception foregrounds mobility, and to cut into this mobility is singularly difficult. Techniques are of course created by all autistics to make this possible, but even these techniques do not always suffice, for not only does autistic perception—like all perception—change and morph over time, requiring a continual set of new ways of making the transition to this world, this time, it is also singularly compelling, enticing the autistic to dwell on the cusp where the world is still in-forming.10 Recall the beauty Higashida describes. This dwelling in autistic perception can make autistics seem unengaged, distracted, when actually they are lingering in the true fullness of attention, lured by infinite complexity. A philosophy of agencement—where the motor of experience is activated by a directional force that facilitates a certain singularization— honors the welter, this singular complexity of a world in-forming. And it honors the lingering. Rather than denying the complexity of autistic perception, agencement celebrates its potential, proposing pathways through the more-than that do not reduce it, as though field perceptions were but neutral transitory effects of a solid and finite form-taking.