What autistic perception makes clear is that there is a gap in movementmoving that opens up the sensory-motor to difference. This gap is more about an overfeeling than a lack. It is Forsythe’s what else, or, in Kawakubo’s procedural fashioning, the remains—what is left over in the passage from force to form. For the neurotypical, this unparsable share tends to get overlaid by inhibition: it is what we actively don’t experience. This is why we don’t tend to perceive it. James suggests that the feeling of volition is less about volition than about inhibition. This is why we feel it as effort: the feeling of effort comes from actively not doing, not seeing, not moving. The effort is felt because of what didn’t happen. What we call voluntary is what we have actively not done.
The inhibition does not necessarily happen at the level of conscious thought. When I don’t pick up the vase instead of the apple, it’s not because I am actively resisting it. It’s because the apple stands in instead. The vase’s presence for perception is being inhibited. In the apple’s standing-in, the vase has actually disappeared, or at least unappeared for perception in lieu of the apple-directed hunger-act of reaching-toward. In autistic experience, not only is there, due to issues with impulse control, much less tendency for inhibition, but autistic perception is by its very definition more field-oriented. As a result, field attention is more present and the termini, as I suggested above, are more tuned to their incipient variability. This tends to take movement out of its presuppositional feeling of volition, thereby deemphasizing the perceived difference between volition and nonvolition, the conscious and the nonconscious. As Donna Williams writes: “When you resonate with an object or surface it is not so much that you have reached out for that object or surface but that it has, somehow, reached into you” (1998: loc. 603). In its effortlessness, autistic perception reaches into the you you are becoming. What isn’t asked often enough is: what else, what other kinds of communication, what other potentials for movement, what other fields of encounter are possible from this uninhibited field of relation?