To explore regions of thought that open onto new kinds of problematic processes, I begin the book with an account of research-creation. Research-creation is the term given, in Canada, to academic work that is evaluated both for a creative, usually artistic contribution, and a written, more theoretical or philosophical one.19 On the surface, research-creation is a term without much traction, more a funding category than a conceptual approach. Since 2003, however, when the term came into general usage in Canada, the SenseLab has taken it on as a problem, asking how the hyphen between research and creation opens up the differential between making and thinking.20 This differential, we argue, needs to be kept alive in its difference—philosophy does not require artistic practice any more than art requires philosophy. Different practices must retain their singularity. At the same time, when they do come together, as with research-creation, it is important to inquire into what the hyphenation does to their singularity. We find research-creation to be a fertile field for thinking this cominginto-relation of difference. Problems that arise include: How does a practice that involves making open the way for a different idea of what can be termed knowledge? How is the creation of concepts, in the context of the philosophical, itself a creative process? How can we bring the different registers of art and philosophy, of making-thinking, together in ways that are capable of honoring their difference? In what ways does the hyphen make operational interstitial modes of existence? Here, as we have done at the SenseLab for the past decade, I take research-creation as one of the most lively current modalities, in the academic institution, of problem-making, and I explore how it creates fields of inquiry for reframing how knowledge is practiced beyond typical forms of academic use-value, including the value we place on linguistic expression and language-based evaluation. Research-creation, I argue in chapter 1, has no method to follow, and no ready-made modes of evaluation.