Anti-Oedipus remains a revolutionary book, and a current one. Taking the force of desire as its mantra, it speaks not of pathologies that are disabling, but to the very potential of moving away from what Guattari calls “normopathy.” It’s amazing what a group of depressives can do! Just watch the news: demonstrations are happening everywhere, and with each of them we see a reorienting of modes of existence that challenge the neoliberal politics which frames our existence. Mobilizations in Turkey (Gezi Park, 2013) may begin to save a park, but very soon they are about political reform, about neoliberal dominance, about new forms of life-living. And this is not an isolated case. In the 2012 Montreal student strike we saw a similar emphasis not on discrete demands but on a wider rethinking of what it means to learn, to live, and to live well. This, it seems to me, discredits Bifo’s suggestion that “the global movement against capitalist globalization reached an impressive range and pervasiveness, but it was never able to change the daily life of society. It remained an ethical movement, not a social transformer. It could not create a process of social recomposition, it could not produce an effect of social subjectivation” (Berardi 2011: 12). For Bifo, if demonstrations do not produce something recognized as a different social system, they have made no difference. What about the what else of the in-act? What about the unwieldy effects of their continuing activity? Doesn’t this separation between the ethical and what Bifo calls “a social transformer” miss the point of the desiring machine that cuts to recompose? Sure, the effects have not been felt in every corner of daily life. But they are felt: a change can be felt in the poststrike classroom in Montreal, in the students’ commitment to study and to the undercommons. A change can be felt since the wave of Occupy movements. A change can be felt across America in the wake of Ferguson. Are things rough? Yes, absolutely. Neoliberalism strangles potential every day. But new techniques for life-living are also being invented every day, activated by minor gestures that continuously transform what it means to act.