This affirmative stance allows us, I think, to be sensitive to the demands of the event in its unfolding while also collectively orienting it. This is complex because we are so accustomed to working with the competing tendency, wherein we separate the individual subject from the event, assuming an individual intentionality. At the SenseLab we’ve been able to sidestep this tendency for the most part by using the event as a training ground for the invention of techniques coming out of a collective experimentation with the idea as affirmative proposition. Our process is to work together to mold an idea into a technique that can affect the conditions of the event, altering how the event comes to expression, affecting its dance of attention. Techniques we develop usually center on the event’s thresholds—the moving across registers of the event: in a given event this could include the shift from small groups to large groups, shifts in location, shifts in speed or intensity. For instance, for each event we plan we set up modes of introduction and contact that seek to intensify existing shifts in register, and then we participate in these shifts to see whether the conditions we are co-creating, with the event, make a difference in how the event unfolds and what it facilitates. Our approach involves a kind of structured improvisation that builds on an acute form of listening to the unfolding of a process in real-time. Having established what we call enabling constraints, having prepared the threshold, having created the conditions for a coming-together in the mode of affirmation, we then explore how the event facilitates the creation of what Guattari calls “a group-subject,” an ecological subjectivity in-formed by the event. There are many failures, of course, some of which we take to be enabling constraints toward the future creation of techniques. Usually a failure is experienced by a resubjectifying on the figure of the individual. The problem with that is that it reestablishes the status quo, foregrounding the individual as the center of performativity rather than making the event the site of care and hospitality.
Over the years, as we have honed our practice, we have moved beyond asking how events are created (what makes an event an event) to asking what an event needs to be able to do. An event-based practice needs to reinvent itself continuously, and it needs to resist becoming institutionalized. It needs to have necessity, in the Nietzschean sense. It needs to create its own value, its own modes of evaluation. Regularly we ask ourselves whether the SenseLab still creates modes of inquiry that are productive of effects that surprise us and move us toward modes of existence that are qualitatively different from ones we have become accustomed to. Do our events still produce thought? Are they still capable of making felt the thinking-in-the-moving I discussed earlier? So far, I think they are, and I believe this is largely due to the fact that we’ve never had a concept of membership. To be part of the SenseLab is simply to want to participate. The more you’re involved, the more you affect our practices, but there is no ideal amount of involvement and no ideal time to get involved. Everything makes a difference.