And yet, as both Bergson and James point out, there is an issue with the above analysis. First, intensity cannot be quantified. It is but a shading, a coloring, of the event, in the event. If intensity is felt to have magnitude, the magnitude can only be qualitative. A quantification cannot therefore be assigned to intensity per se, but must instead be connected to a sense of what the intensity represented, after the fact. What this means is that there is an alliance between the feeling of effort and how the event has come to be known in retrospect. This knowing-in-retrospect is the work consciousness does in the parsing of an event.22 Bergson writes: “But just as consciousness . . . concentrates on a given point of the organism the increasing number of muscular contractions which take place on the surface of the body, thus converting them into one single feeling of effort, of growing intensity, so it will hypostatize under the form of a growing desire the gradual alterations which take place in the confused heap of coexisting psychic states” (2007: 9). What is felt as quantitative effort is felt consciously, backgrounding not only the qualitative complexity in the event, but intensity’s own qualitative multiplicity. In the parsing that occurs with consciousness, a certain poverty of complexity has been chosen over the confused heap. This leads to the intervals of sensation—its degrees and multiplicities— being flattened into one single overarching feeling. The transition from the complexity of a purely qualitative experience to the feeling of effort occasioned in the conscious accounting of the act makes the intervals of sensation appear “as different intensities of one and the same feeling, which is thus supposed to change in magnitude” (Bergson 2007: 11). Whereas in the nonconscious welling event, every shift caused a change in nature, in turn causing a qualitative transformation in the field of experience, with the onset of consciousness the tendency is to backgrid effect onto cause, creating a solid accounting of change that organizes the event within a temporal grid. This solid accounting is quantifiable only because it can be said to be the same or different—in time, in space, in effect—from the last solid accounting of experience. “Consciousness, accustomed to think in terms of space and to translate its thoughts into roots, will denote the feeling by a single word and will localize the effort at the exact point where it yields a useful result: it will then become aware of an effort which is always of the same nature and increases at the spot assigned to it, and a feeling which, retaining the same name, grows without changing its nature” (Bergson 2007: 26). With consciousness, the feeling tends to move from the event into the subject, where the effort’s magnitude is directly aligned to experiences parsed, past and present.