1 I discuss this work in some detail in Manning 2013—see the second section of the chapter entitled “Choreography as Mobile Architecture.” The work has been exhibited several times, both as Slow Clothes and as Stitching Time. The last two iterations of the work were exhibited at the Sydney Biennale (2012) and at the Moscow Biennale (2013). Images of the work can be found at www
.erinmovement.com under “Artwork.”
2 Objectness would here be allied to the objectile as defined by Deleuze in The Fold (Deleuze 1992). I also discuss it in relation to the choreographic object in the chapter entitled “What Else” in Manning 2013.
3 For more on Song Dong’s work, see http://ybca.org/song-dong (accessed November 12, 2013).
4 Song Dong’s work is very attentive to modes of production (and the excess that results from capitalist production) in China.
5 Leo Kamen, art dealer and ex-owner of the Leo Kamen Gallery in Toronto, speaking of artistic practice, suggests that much art that sells within the contemporary art market is based on conclusions rather than processes. We like conclusions, it seems, but whether conclusions are artful is an open question.
6 For more on the concept of mobile architecture, see “Choreography as Mobile Architecture” in Manning 2013.
7 For Forsythe’s definition of the choreographic object, see Forsythe 2008.
8 For a thorough account of presentational immediacy and causal efficacy, two key concepts in Whitehead’s account of perception, see Whitehead 1927.
9 I foreground the gallery as a setting for contemporary art throughout not because I think the artful necessarily lives in the gallery setting. In fact, the artful and the gallery have a history of contention. Nonetheless, for most artists the gallery remains a site of experimentation and exhibition, and therefore the question of what the contemporary art gallery can mobilize in the name of the artful is important.
10 Curator Catherine de Zegher is an exception in this regard. Her exhibitions are alive with minor gestures, activated both through the works themselves and in their emergent relations. De Zegher’s curatorial technique of choosing artists not based on flashy magazines or fame but by traveling to their places
of work and engaging with them one on one to bring out the relational force of their work is what enables the rare expression of the minor gesture within the setting of the contemporary art gallery. De Zegher’s careful attendance to the choreography of exhibition is also key to this process as it allows artists to compose in relation to each other’s work, sensitive to the openings created in their physical and conceptual proximity.