In Modes of Thought, Whitehead protests what he calls “the bifurcation of nature” (1938: 30). The tendency to separate out the concept of matter from its perception or to make a constitutive difference between “nature apprehended in awareness and the nature which is the cause of awareness” leads to a splintering of experience (1938: 30). What emerges is an account of experience that separates out the human subject from the ecologies of en-
counter: “The problem is to discuss the relations inter se of things known, abstracted from the bare fact that they are known” (1938: 30). To posit two systems—one “within the mind” and one “without the mind”—is a methodological posture still very much alive in the critical apparatus of the disciplinary model. What we know is what can be abstracted from experience into a system of understanding that is decipherable precisely because its operations are muted by their having been taken out of their operational context. Whitehead explains: “The reason why the bifurcation of nature is always creeping back into scientific philosophy is the extreme difficulty of exhibiting the perceived redness and warmth of the fire in one system of relations with the agitated molecules of carbon and oxygen, with the radiant energy from them, and with the various functionings of the material body. Unless we produce the all-embracing relations, we are faced with a bifurcated nature; namely, warmth and redness on one side, and molecules, electrons and ether on the other side” (1938: 32). The unquantifiable within experience can only be taken into account if we begin with a mode of inquiry that refutes initial categorization. Positing the terms of the account before the exploration of what the account can do only results in stultifying its potential and relegating it to that which already fits within preexisting schemata of knowledge. Instead of holding knowledge to what can already be ascertained (and measured), we must, as William James suggests, find ways to account not only for the terms of the analysis, but for all that transversally weaves between them. James calls this “radical empiricism.”