Into ‘inter’: the between in interacting
In 2006, struggling to think collectively with both others and media, I got together with a group of 12 artists and writers, and a wiki. We hoped to engage in something process-oriented, networked and collaborative that took us away from our local ‘cartographies of exhaustion’, to borrow the title of Peter Pel Palbert’s book on affectivity and the ongoing states of crisis in our contemporary social and cultural milieus (2013). But we wanted also to remain focused, and develop consistency through process. We wanted media with which to conjoin not just as tools for interactions and to be invigorated as a result of our engagement. For a two-week period during June 2006, this group contributed to a structured wiki by responding to 'tasks' concerning collaborative thought, relations and art.1 
Material deposited in the wiki space and in external web publishing portals such as YouTube and Multiply was downloaded, reformatted (text was converted to audio, for example) and taken into VJing and DJing packages. It was then re-presented as two different remixes at ISEA 2006 (International Symposium of Electronic Arts), as the final performance/event of the ISEA Symposium. The process and event became a kind of machine that we called an Assemblage for Collective Thought (ACT). By ‘machine’ I mean something both technological and nontechnological. We were certainly using software and hardware – the wiki subtended by networked communications technologies and infrastructure. And the wiki was a fundamental component of that machine. It lent a specificity and consistency to the whole endeavor but this was not the element that made ACT a ‘machine’ in the sense I want to evoke this term: “It is the machine that is primary in relation to the technical element: not the technical machine, itself a collection of elements, but the social or collective machine, the machinic assemblage…”, Gilles Deleuze and Felix Guattari suggest in their shattering of technological determinism (2005: 398). 
A machine, whether technical or not, is a generative arrangement of heterogeneous components – people, affects, socialities, economics, technical elements, nonhuman organic and inorganic contributors all constitute the relational assemblage. In ACT, what was assembling itself via process, experiment and technique was a little machine for collaborative thought. That experience of working with others, a wiki, with states of exhaustion and exhilaration was important in my future explorations and engagements with collaboration and media. Such experiences have provided me with techniques and modes of thinking the forces of media, bodies and affect as unruly yet welcome associates and for discovering the conditions for making such assemblages and interactions generative. This generativity gives rise to an embodied or felt sense of engagement in which making, especially media-making, becomes joyful and where the process is ongoing, facilitating the next mode or entry point for re-engagement. Sher Doruff, an artist who has worked with media art and collaboration for over three decades calls this generativity “event-value” in contradistinction to the exchange value of commodified forms of art output and practice. (2012a: 23) 
I have already suggested that the wiki in this project was a collaborator; it was certainly not a mediator and it never functioned as the interface with which to ‘interact’ for the project. Wikis are notoriously clunky deriving from a history of web development from the mid-1990s when graphic interface browsers became available. They retain a kind of clumsiness in their simultaneous nested and somewhat hierarchical management of user permissions and content coupled together with their authorlessness. Contributing to and editing a wikipage involves writing over, alongside and against all the other authors who are members of that wiki. This inevitably produces varying degrees of frustration and elation when contributions are lost or transformed by other collaborators. The wiki platform generates an odd temporality, too, in which all versions of contribution can be re-accessed (restored, if necessary) and yet the immediate page on which work is being carried out tends to become the one that holds sway…until the next edit! 
In order to navigate this fluid and clunky mediatic terrain, the ACT group developed some techniques for collaboration that involved setting ‘tasks’ and ‘rules’. The closed and openendedness of the task and rule relationship formed the initial conditions for collaborative work to emerge. Instead of relegating engagement to the relation between interface and user, then, techniques became a kind of condition for and conditioning of interaction.  A technique is not disassociated from a technical element such as the software environment but it is not only about nor does it solely develop from this. A technique is also not simply imposed on bodies – human/nonhuman, organic/inorganic – but emerges in and of the relations of those bodies with each other and with other materialities such as computation, software and communications networks. A technique is not the opposite of improvisation, play or free form. Indeed, as I hope to suggest, the oscillating relations that form between technique and improvisation provide the conditions for machines to become generative and for collaborations to take off. Moreover, to set a technique up as conditioning interaction is to invert ordinary task and interface protocol. The derivative of a practice which should be passed on to operate between others, gains its own ontogenetic status, both enabling as Brian Massumi and Erin Manning put it (2014: 103), and constraining a practice to come.