In the Heideggarian tradition of conceptualising technology, which has dominated much critique of the Western understanding of technicality and its role in industrialised societies, the problem lies with the reduction of technology to instrumentality. Here, technologies are simply tools for getting things done. We may well agree that such critique of instrumentalism is still relevant for the present context of knowledge production. For Heidegger, the alternative lay with thinking through the ‘essence’ of technology; an essence that is not itself instrumental but can be found by delving into the concept of techne. Techne draws on the idea of both artisan and artistic techniques, crossing the spheres of manufacturing and industry (the techniques of shoemakers and printers, for example) and those of the arts, the techniques of poets and graphic designers, for example. It is "know-how”. But techne for Heidegger cannot be reduced to a making or instrumentation: "what is decisive in techne does not lie at all in making and manipulating nor in the using of means, but rather in the… revealing. It is as revealing, and not as manufacturing, that techne is a bringing-forth”(Heidegger, 2009.13). Heidegger wanted to restore an essence to technology, an essence that belonged to a transcendental field that is its truth. This field is the condition for the existence for any particular piece of technology whatsoever…techne as technique becomes a way of drawing forth this essence/truth. 
Contra this, in the radical empiricist mode of thinking, which emphasises the primacy of experience, technique is a matter of consistency.2 Here technique does not aim to reveal a generalizable truth but is operative in the creation of singularities. Technique occurs across all domains of organic and inorganic life – it is not special but it is practiced; it occurs everyday but must take all its pasts, its repetitions and its potentials for the next instantiation into account as it develops. Every technique is both singular and general, as Erin Manning suggests: ““There are techniques for hoeing, for standing at a bus stop, for reading a philosophical text, for taking a seat in a restaurant, for being in line at a grocery store” (2012: 33) There are particularities to standing in line – one stands up straight as one approaches the head of the queue at immigration control despite the jetlag setting in. But the queue is simultaneously a generalised composition where one is attended to one at a time. Specificity and generality imbricate each other in technique. To generate techniques is to already be in the middle of a complex ecology of practices that takes us outside of ourselves, placing us already in relationality. This state of middleness requires both cultivation and inhabitation of a specific space-time that we could call ‘betweenness’. 
In media theory, still dominated by an information and communications paradigm, betweeness is often overlooked or passed over as getting across the divide between sender and receiver, encoder-decoder, user-computer takes precedence. Neither is betweeness given its due in theories or in a great many, especially HCI-oriented, practices of interface design (see, for example, Jacko and Sears, 2007). The point of the interface is to facilitate interaction between two pre-constituted endpoints. The interface as such is a point of contact for communication to flow across these givens. The point here is not to dwell in the middle, to dwell in relation but to resolve out toward the origin or endpoints of the flows. But what happens when the ‘inter’ shifts from this to and from set of flows toward a shifting topology of betweenness? To be sure, the inbetween is not an occupiable space but rather a dynamic and moving register of tendencies. 
In paying attention to these kinds of dynamics, we must give special consideration to the matter of elements in the mix. Yet if we reduce this mattering to a substantialist materialism in which particular technologies, media or kinds of organic bodies (like humans) play a determining role then we have again overlooked the reality of the inbetween. We must be wary of giving technical elements such as media platforms or communications technologies determining functions ahead of the actual process and work that they do in the ecology of collaborative work. What is at play in the inbetween is the dynamic expressivity of a plane or plateau of intensities.3 Intensities operate at a molecular level as ontogenetic conditions for and transversally moving across molar entities such as ‘bodies’, ‘users’ and ‘computers’. They are degrees of quality rather than quantity such as the tint and saturation of a colour. Intensities can be felt directly in experience across and in the dynamic tendencies when larger molar entities engage as well. They are always experienced in change as some shift or other occurs to take these dynamics elsewhere.
I want to now look at two sophisticated media environments and assemblages for collaboration involving customised technical elements, audiences, ‘players’ as well as unwitting nonhuman participants. I am interested in these assemblages because rather than setting up models for interaction as such, they develop techniques instead that recruit a computational apparatus in order to create the conditions for intensities to be given duration.  What is crucial for both these aesthetic projects are the ways in which techniques had to be invented in situ, in consort with the technologies and players, and that what has resulted is the generation of novel fields of expression. It is this attention to an ecology of practice that allows the inbetween to emerge as an experimental terrain that can be felt in the encounters that take place through the particular aesthetic processes generated. I’ll then sketch out some current experiments with which I am involved that use lo-fi and consumer-end communications platforms. All of these examples depart from the still commonly accepted conception of media as mediators or channels between communicators and take up a new constellation – that of immediation.