Many experiments from the late 1980s and ‘90s with online platforms for distributed communications generated a particular kind of experience for human participants, at once nonlocal and intensely embodied. What artistic online networking experiments initially made palpable was a kind of stumbling into relation with the differentials of technical speeds, geographical spatial dispersion and the life rhythms of participants in differing time zones. During this period, things, projects and online situations flowed into one another rapidly and moved on just as quickly, building density, intensities and rapid perishings. In discussing the experimental network of artists who gathered and performed using the first online real time multimedia collaborative performance software Keyworx, active between1997–2004, Sher Doruff, its designer, made a similar observation about distributed media and embodiment: 
…translocal experience, as an embodied experience, is amplified because your body is … you have the sensation of … how can I say this? The effect of intensities of translocal performance when it’s indeterminate and you’re collectively negotiating and making choices together and you’re playing off those choices as a jazz band would or as a dancers might … the translocal becomes incredibly, intensely physicalised, but your feeling of space is non-locally oriented (Doruff and Murphie, 2012)
It is important to understand that the Keyworx environment operated during a period when most people would have sworn that real time collaborative networked streaming and performative media environments were a dream of a utopian wired-up future. But these were not high tech hardware performance events, although the Keyworx platform consisted of highly customised and intricately coded software. Performers and media operated with ordinary, publicly available bandwidth and packet switching networks, with all the delays, blips, and glitches of the networking of that time. Indeed, these features of networked transmission became collaborative and affective elements in the improvisations themselves. 
In Interfacing/Radiotopia/Keyworx, a collaborative event using Keyworx at Dutch media festival DEAF, 2003, six performers were paired with each other between Rotterdam and New York where they engaged in ‘co-operative’ VJing.  In Rotterdam, in a proximate room with no visuals, the sound collective Radiotopia were simultaneously DJing samples of sound that had been uploaded by audiences in both cities and which were provided as noneditable audio streams to the six performers within the Keyworx software environment on their laptops. (Doruff, 2006:110ff). Audience members in both cities could also SMS short messages to the performers that appeared in a plugin within Keyworx for the performers. These were then filtered into ‘keywords’ by the plugin. The keywords became response points for the performers who, in real time, would remix the text with image and video synthesis through Keyworx, in relation to the streaming audio. A complex ecology for the event was at work. Not only are there human performing collaborators, media platforms and audiences in this mix but the design of the performance also harnessed the forces of network communications at their nonhuman technical level; that is, their capacity to generate relays and to unfold and refold information recursively.