Both Doruff and performers involved in this event and in the history of the Keyworx environment have spoken of the way in which translocality – that is, embodied distributed experience – amplified that embodiment, generating a ‘zone of the interval’ (Teran in Doruff, 2006: 132; Doruff, 2009: 27) Actual individual instances of such intervals are perceptible for audiences and performers alike in any networked performance event even at speeds of network transmission today and at current levels of performance and bandwidth. These occur as lags, feedback loops, overlays, repetitions and recursions of sound, image, movement and performative gestures. But the interval in collaborative, networked performance functions more fundamentally as a kind of consistency felt across bodies, media and the space-time of performance. The zone of the interval is grasped more at the level of an imperceptible yet felt experience: across, between, under and over direct visual, sonic or gestural manifestations of a meter, syncopation or delay. This consistency is a rhythm of relation: of the intersecting, overlapping and disjunctive forces at play in the event itself. 
For such expressivity to be generated, repetition – or what we might also call technique, recalling my earlier discussion of the necessary practice involved in its cultivation as an enabler – is a necessary aspect of performative collaborations. What I want to extract for consideration from the Keyworx example is the assemblage that emerges from a series of relational, recursive and nonlinear dynamics oscillating around: collaboration/collectivity, repetition/interval, technique/technicity, It is this assemblage or ecology that calls forth a new field of expression. A collaborative assemblage such as the Keyworx event is made possible by the rhythm of all these relations. And it is the rhythmicity that transmutes the mere exchange of knowledge and skills of collaborative work into something else. Rhythm is what allows for collaborative techniques to transform into a collectivity and itself carries over into the new milieu for expression that is this collectivity. Rhythm is not a beat but a binding of the energetics of potential forces, pulsating with a movement of becoming as yet something else, anew. Rhythm needs the relation to the interval as differential; a differential that spaces and temporalizes repetition and which also emerges in any repeating: “Rhythm is never on the same plane as that which has rhythm. Action occurs in a milieu, whereas rhythm is located between two milieus, or between two intermilieus, on the fence, between night and day, at dusk, twilight or Zwielicht. (Deleuze and Guattari, 2005, 313–4). From the milieu of the practicing performers in the Keyworx event to the milieu of real time audience participation; from the milieu of the organic human body to the inorganic relays, redundancies and recursions of packet switching networks; from the milieu of one city and its time zones to that of another: the passing between these and the consistency that arises in doing so is rhythmic. Rhythm is not confined to the sonic but is a creative process of both consolidation and emergence.
In a rather different performative collaboration, Nathaniel Stern’s ongoing project Compressionism (2005 and ongoing), expands the ecological field to incoporate the nontechnical nonhuman as well. In this image-composition project, Stern has worked to open up a new field of expression for the digital image. He straps a desktop scanner, laptop and battery pack to his body and moves across and with his body and surrounds, ‘performing’ as he puts it, images into existence (Stern, 2005 and ongoing). For Stern, these images are not an end point; rather they allow for crystallisations of dynamics and momentary captures of relationality. These dynamics play off and across the bodies forming through the work, the digital technologies and the milieus that become part of the ecology. They embrace the particularities of a human body moving – its gait, its flexibility, its strength and weaknesses, its energies. The scanning-body here is a technical body – not because it has become cyborgian and assimilated digital technologies nor because it has acquiesced to a transhumanist fantasy of computational disembodiment. It is a technical body because it has practiced and cultivated a technique of moving-with that listens to and transforms in relation to the technological speeds of the scanning software and hardware and the speeds and durations of its surrounds. This moving-with marks the practice as collaborative, where collaboration takes into account the capacity to affect and be affected by all elements, from the technologies, through to rocks and water and Stern’s body.
In one crystallization of this project, Rippling Images (2014), Stern worked with a human team to construct a marine-rated scanning rig in order to scuba-dive a coral reef and perform the scans in relation with a marine ecology. Engaged in this image-making process for a decade, Stern also works with a range of other media and collaborators. But he notes the importance of longevity in the cultivation of a practice, for here a technique is able to emerge. Technique that is not oriented toward perfection but rather to the full range of affectivities that can ripple through a project, including slowness, failure and collapse of the technologies in relation to both body and surrounds. He says of the underwater scanning performances: “Everything leaked, everything broke, nothing did what I wanted or expected: and this is precisely what must have happened…” (2014). Stern’s techniques enable a new expressive field for the digital image through the cultivation of rhythm as it creates a moving-with between human and nonhuman milieus.