GB: I mean I have been using the word experimentation a lot, and maybe there is something slightly irresponsible about that, I am not really  sure.  But at least the way we normally think about an experiment—embedded in the disciplines of science—you usually try to control it a lot more than I do, and usually try and quantify the results, and it’s a little difficult to do that with this type of work. Being at MIT, this different understanding of the meaning of an experiment has become clear to me. In the art world experiments are allowed, or even expected to be open-ended. There’s a different type of knowledge being produced that isn’t quantifiable. It can be quite uncomfortable, but it’s necessary to accept provocation and the opening of questions and desires as the actual work that we’re doing as artists,  and to not instrumentalize that process in the service of more conclusive knowledge.  And this points to a question that comes up a lot actually, when I am talking to people about these projects, both Seeds and Bulbs, people always ask questions like, ‘oh do you  ask
people to report back to you where they planted them?’ or ‘do you ask them to
take pictures?’, or ‘if you could, would you want to put a GPS inside the seed bombs so you can map everything out?’, and the answer to all of those questions is absolutely no. The key question of Seeds – how does technology change our desires? – is mapped out by the tossing of the bombs, if and when that happens.  And one of the things that I love about it is that the map is invisible. The map is something that does exist but it’s not something that anyone can see, and it’s absolutely not something that can be quantified. So it requires
a certain act of faith. I have been calling these projects failures because I
suspect that it’s too easy to ignore the invitation, but in truth I have no idea, each one of them could have been tossed. Maybe your question about experimentation is also really  crucially linked to invitation and failure, and figuring out how to balance these things a bit. Without needing to know everything, or make final conclusions. I think this work will go further not just by adopting contagion as a methodology or developing more workshops, but also learning more about how to observe the long-term of the process, as was
possible with Scatter.  I still don’t know precisely what happened there, or what I
was responsible for, but I can continue to have a relationship with it as the process unfolds, and this keeps creating opportunities for engagement and learning.