Foucault speaks of “a new type of relation, a dimension of thought that is irreducible to knowledge” (in Deleuze 1988: 74). This dimension of thought, this outside of recognizable knowledge is not new. It already exists – we hear it in the stories passed down through generations as told to us by indigenous scholars, we feel it in the care for material practices as shared to us by African American quilt-makers, we hear it in the break “where that shit breaks down.” Thought irreducible to practice moves outside the registers of categorisation, shifting the conditions of undercommon ways of cawing. We don’t need a university for this – in fact the university often closes down the registers of sociality this kind of study needs to thrive. I often return to the lines below from Moten and Harney when I consider what else knowledge could be, reminding myself that all we need to activate thought that is irreducible to knowledge is a porch: 
When I think about the way we use the term ‘study,’ I think we are committed to the idea that study is what you do with other people. It’s talking and walking around with other people, working, dancing, sffering, some irreducible convergence of all three, held under the name of speculative practice. The notion of a rehearsal – being in a kind of workshop, playing in a band, in a jam session, or old men sitting on a porch, or people working together in a factory – there are these various modes of activity. The point of calling it ‘study’ is to mark that the incessant and irreversible intellectuality of these activities is already present. These activities aren’t ennobled by the fact that we now say, “oh, if you did these things in a certain way, you could be said to be have been studying.” To do these things is to be involved in a kind of common intellectual practice. What’s important is to recognize that that has been the case – because that recognition allows you to access a whole, varied, alternative history of thought (2013: 110).  
The outside is the name Deleuze and Foucault give to the circulation of forces at the heart of power’s operations where thought remains irreducible to knowledge. The outside is not the exterior (as opposed to an interior). It is not spatial – it is intensive. The outside is what remains unthought in thought, what remains unfelt in feeling. It is what accompanies all emergent relationalities, what moves with all social life in the making. “[T]he outside concerns force: if force is always in relation with other forces, forces necessarily pertain to an irreducible outside which no longer has a form, made up of nondecomposable distances where one force acts upon another or is acted upon by another” (1988: 86, translation modified).