The order-word, as Deleuze and Guattari make clear, is not the imperative per se. The order-word is the force of the presupposition that moves through the imperative, telling Ido Kedar over and over again that his ways of communicating are not only without value, but fully outside what even registers as communication. Like many autistics who eventually speak with the help of keyboards and automated speech programs, Kedar makes it clear that there was a wealth of communication before anyone registered it as communication. Speaking of his first moments working with Soma Mukhopadhyay, the autism expert who would assist him in learning to communicate through text, he writes: 
I was tasting my first communication [through text] and all my experts saw were the prompts, not the communication […] My ABA supervisor told my mom that it made no difference if I could communicate or not. I would continue to be taught in the same way with the same flashcards and drills as if I still didn’t know my verbs, categories, adjectives, pronouns and so on. […] [My mom] told me that the whole team sat and argued with her that I couldn’t really communicate because I didn’t with them. How could I with them? I only got drills or behavior modification. How was I to communicate with them? Spontaneously erupt in song and dance? Talking was impossible. Writing I could do with support but they denied me that… So what’s left? The data that didn’t fit the model they threw away. If I was silent there, I must be silent everwhere, including internally” (2012: loc 1838). 
The order word is: commuication that does not fit our model is no communication at all. That communication requires sociality, that support is at the heart of communication, that language is a form of emergent sociality – none of these mattered. Because the ABA specialists had decided there was no communication. Kedar continues: “Soma didn’t teach me to read. She taught me how to get language out of my head. It was not an easy process because it was swirling internally with no way out. It’s awesome to liberate my thoughts. People take this for granted and talk such dopey things all day. I choose each word carefully. I want it to matter” (2012: loc 1449).