Previously,  with   a  nod   to   Rancière’s   notion  to   aesthetic  equality,  I  have suggested the term  “technical equality” to refer  to Simondon’s gesture of taking the  equality of human and  technical objects as a point  of departure. And  this  is where Simondon’s account of technical individuals intersects with  Latour’s and Stengers’s  interest in “non-human actors.”  Yet Simondon also  adds something crucial  to  the  politics  of  technical equality. There  is  of  course  a  difference in concern insofar  as Stengers’s and  Latour’s focus might  be best qualified as “experimental individuals” in contrast to Simondon’s technical individuals. Yet, above  and  beyond this  difference of focus,  with  his  close  attention to both  the remarkable points (form)  and   associated milieu   (across  internal and   external grounds) of the technical individual, Simondon’s account introduces greater coherence  at   the   level   of  what   matters  and   how.   What   is  more,   because Simondon  insistently  specifies    and    qualifies  what    counts  as   a   technical individual, his  account shows  greater concern for  speaking with  machines (or with  technicity) rather than  for speaking for them  (Latour’s emphasis on representation) or  about   them  (Stengers’s  focus  on  science’s  politics  of truth). Finally,  despite the  generality of his historical account of modernity, Simondon offers  a less massive theory of modernity than  Latour in particular. In keeping with  his focus on concrete specification, the technical individual for Simondon is one type or tendency within technical being,  albeit one that becomes  pronounced in  modern times,  whose  dominance signals  a kind  of modernity. As such,  his account  invites   us  to  think   modernity in  the  manner of  Foucault,  not  as  a massive, all encompassing Rationalization or Modernization, but in terms  of overlapping  fields   of  rationality  (multiple  modernities)  with   their   specific potential for resistance (Foucault 1982). This is because Simondon’s attention to the  associated milieu  of the  technical individual, in conjunction with  its neutral point  and  remarkable points, brings  technicity or  technical equality  into  play with  greater specification of potentiality.