3. Training and Development
We have followed our suggested governance structure, which involves a full-time administrator (Celine Pereira), a community-university liaison (a role shared by Erik Bordeleau and Virginia Preston), a journal and books administrator (shared by Ronald Rose-Antoinette and Adam Szymanski) and a webmaster/anarchiving director (Leslie Plumb). The first year was heavy with training but all positions will be ongoing in 2014-2015, providing continuity and increasing efficiencies. The fact that the SenseLab has been active for more than a decade has also facilitate the training of students and staff as all of them are long-time collaborators and feel a strong investment in the project. The SenseLab believes in crafting a strong ethos of hospitality and care (we think of it as “care for the event”), which creates a fertile training environment not only for students and post-docs but for visiting researchers and visiting artists. Since we had to make a distinction between SenseLab members and students directly involved in the Immediations Project (we could not fund all SenseLab members, all post-docs, visiting researchers and artists), we asked each funded person to commit to a contract where they specifically outlined how they saw their contribution to the project. Each funded person was also asked to commit to a research-creation schedule (see contracts in Appendix 2). The role of the contract is to give the students, visiting researchers/artists and postdoctoral researchers a sense of commitment to the project as well as encouraging them to find ways to make links between their own research projects and Immediations. Since I supervise a large number of the students (and I supervise all visiting researchers/artists and postdocs who come to the SenseLab), I also schedule weekly conversations about both their individual research and the Immediations-based research, assisting them in finding ways to bridge their own interests and those of the Partnership Grant. In addition, we encourage students to move between hubs (and support them through travel and accommodation), facilitating new working relationships with co-applicants in the project. The SenseLab is a vital environment with 10-20 students, artists and researchers in the Concordia-based space every day. I have included student CVs in Appendix 3 to emphasize the partnership's commitment to training and the strength of student contributions to the project.