Perhaps the best sign of the momentum of our research is the fact that several core members have been invited on numerous occasions to discuss the Immediations project both locally and internationally. Recent presentations on the SenseLab by Erin Manning and Brian Massumi include: 
July 2014 Keynote and seminar (1 week) (Manning). The Force of Performance: Movement, Affect, Participation. Nordic Summer University, Iceland.  Contact: Camilla Graff Junior.
June 2014 Keynote (Massumi). Affective Tactics, Hemispheric Institute, Encuentro 2014, Montreal. Contact: Mark Sussman
June 2014 Invited Lecture (Manning). Event-Creation - Propositions for Research-Creation. Akademie Schloss Solitude / N-1 Publications. Stuttgart, Germany. Contact: Peter Pal Pelbart and Akseli Virtanen.
June 2014 Invited Lecture (Manning). Against Method - Propositions for Research-Creation. Aesthetics of the Humanities Symposium. Coventry University, UK. Contact: Janneke Adema.
May 2014 Keynote (Manning). Artfulness: A Participatory Ethos. Reclaiming Participation Conference. Zurich, Switzerland. Contact: Isabell Otto. 
April 2014 Keynote (Manning). A Politics in Movement. Joint Invitation from Graduate Student Conference Critically Kinaesthetic: Performing bodies of political engagement and the Performance Studies (Canada) Speaker Series. Contact: Marlis Schweitzer.
October 2013 Workshop and Special Seminar (Manning and Massumi). Process Philosophy: Where Art Meets Thought. Tanzquartier, Vienna. Contact: Arno Böhler.
August 2013 Workshop (later released as a film) (Manning and Massumi). "Between Polyphony and Common Ground: Negotiating a One Page Manifesto for Urban Media and Public Art," with Krzysztof Wodiczko, Erin Manning, Katharina Meissner, and Doo Eun Choi. Hexagram/CIAM, Agora de la danse, Montreal. Contact: Jean Dubois
June 2013. Keynote (Manning and Massumi). "For a Pragmatics of the Useless." Nordes 2013: Nordic Design Research Conference, Copenhagen. Contact: 
April 2013 Round Table (Manning and Massumi). "La recherche-création/Research-Creation," with Owen Chapman and Louis-Claude Paquin. Colloque du doctorat conjoint en communication, Montreal. Contact: Thierry Bardini.