•	Support new approaches to research on complex and important topics, including those that transcend the capacity of any one scholar, institution or discipline
In April 2014 we held a concurrent 3-day event in Zurich, Melbourne and Montreal (Eastern Townships) entitled Anarchiving: Precarity. This event culminated a year-long research project on "Recomposing Experience," with a particular emphasis on the precarity of knowledge. With the concept of the "anarchive" in mind (a key aspect of the grant proposal), each hub explored ways of addressing the relationship between knowledge, experience, research-creation and memory/archiving. Different approaches were foregrounded including explorations of material practices, research on digital archives and their pitfalls, approaches to the archive from a research-creation perspective. In order to launch the three-way event, we also published an off-issue of Inflexions [http://inflexions.org/anarchivingprecarity/anarchive.html] entitled Anarchiving: Precarity, which will be updated each month from April 2014 to November 2014, when the SenseLab begins to host its year 2 events in Melbourne and Sydney. In preparation for this event, we scheduled weekly workshops entitled Inflexions-Making at the SenseLab that involved exploring how collective art-making develops its own forms of research and knowledge. The focus for this ambitious weekly workshop was “material thinking.” We also held bi-monthly workshops in collaboration with the performance and art space Usine C in Montreal entitled Movements of Thought and Knots of Thought. These workshops were open to the public and were meant to  to activate an under-utilized section of the Usine C building called “Le Plancher.” Our ongoing philosophy reading group continued to be held every three weeks throughout the year at the SenseLab. It focus this year has been on the concept of "immanent critique" (Nietzsche, Deleuze). A 3-day international event was also held in the Fall 2013 with the aim of setting the machinery in motion for the year's series of events, in particular the April 2014 event. The Fall event, entitled Bioscleave: Entering the Event, was also organized to feed into the June 2014 event in New York (in collaboration with partner Reversible Destiny) entitled the The Proceeding Procedure: In/Confluence with the Work of Arakawa and Gins. The Fall 2013 event was our introduction to the relationship of precarity and the lived environment. In parallel, a monthly screening series ending with a 2-day research-creation event entitled AbFab: Documentary Cinema and Performance was also held at McGill University with a focus on creating propositions for mobile cinema. All of these events were open to the public.