Description of the Activity: 100-250 words. 
This performance/installation, commissioned for Illuminate 2015, in partnership with the Holburne Museum, Bath ………..for me to create a large scale projection for the façade of the museum with perofrmances by local people over 6 nights. Based on the biblical story of ‘the ark’, it tests the proposition that we can prepare for likely catastrophic events by ‘rehearsing’ them through play – here enacted with performances by up to 30 volunteers who, with luggage, placards and wearing animal masks constructed by Jones, walked down Gret Poultney St towards the museum each evening to queue at the visible prow of a boat projected onto the museum. This work was funded by the British Arts Council and Bath Spa university which provided a 4 week residency for Jones. While international artists Francis Alys and Tino Sehgal both work with amateur volunteers in a new approach to performance, this research is rooted in my own history of live and video performance research since 1978, concerned with the outcomes for the performers themselves. It references an earlier version which involved 140 people, in own animal costumes and an ark as projection, in Avoca in 2012. During the festival that was sited in and onto many major museums in the centre of Bath, many thousands viewed the works. There were 160 mask-wearing amateur participants for this work and another 6-10 who assisted each night holding placards and torches. There was one professional actor who addressed them through a loudhailer. The originality of this work (previously shown as a completely different version at the 2012 Sydney Biennale and subsequently invited to Mons Cultural Capital of Europe Festival 2015 and comes from my 35 year history of research into performance as both play and rehearsal for those involved both directly as performers and indirectly, as audiences. Here, they become refugees, doing anything they can to leave, with the empathy this requires. Masks were made by myself, using broken household objects to suggest desperation, personal ingenuity and resilience. Importance of placards and Charlie Hebdo. Talks at Holburne and for Vice Chancellor