For De Certeau, walking through the streets recreates the city itself as more than a fixed “geometrical or geographical space” (93), producing instead a relational and contingent experience. In “walking the city” De Certeau examines ways that the deterritorialization of spatial order is enabled through the act of walking, and the positive personal and social implications of these movements (chapter VII). This is positioned as a “tactic”, a fragmentary insinuation into place to reappropriate it “without taking over in its entirety” (xiv, xix). Thus the tactic destabilizes from below without necessarily imposing new order, remaining immanent and essentially per-formed rather than a preformed strategy (xx). The multiple, personal and improvised walks performed within the city are a tactic by which pedestrians “create for themselves a sphere of autonomous action within the constraints that are imposed on them” (Lamant 720). Walking reconstructs immanent space - experienced as contingent, composed of “vectors of direction, velocities, time variables…intersections of mobile elements” (De Certeau 117) - rather than space as a static, fixed or territorialized “place” that is the “law of the proper” (ibid. 117). The walker reconfigures the impersonal, visible and knowable space of the city streets through “weak” methods born of creativity rather than passive or active resistance (Lamant 720), replacing the productive and pre-structured space with an improvisational experience that operates inside the established systems. What interests me here is not the problematic and romantic return to the flâneur, as De Certeau’s argument can be read1. Rather, that in emphasizing the reconfiguration of relations out of existing entities, and the continual differential action of movement that keeps these relations at this point of splitting, rejoining and re-layering, De Certeau’s walker activates a becoming-minor potential of her relationship to the city. Walking here is a technique of differentiation, positioned not as a negative to the actualized, but as a creative derivation from that which is already in existence that extends and complicates (Deleuze xx): a positive parasitism that is minor or “molecular” in allowing new communication or exchange between components (Deleuze and Guattari, Kafka 41).