This is what Deleuze and Guattari in A Thousand Plateaus describes in terms of "machinic enslavement," presciently describing the neoliberal moment before the fact (1987: 466-473). They speak of the role of the nation-state changing. The state, they say, now functions as a "model of realization" for global capital, or what Guattari liked to call "worldwide integrated capitalism." What they mean is that nation-states can modulate the way the capitalist process falls on their territory, using their borders as a kind of refractive lens, but they cannot be the master of it. At best, they can create zones of relative stability, precariously sheltering their national territory from the worst effects of  the "creative destruction" of capital's transformational movements, and redistributing those effects elsewhere. The situation in Greece vis-à-vis Germany and the other more stable economies at the core of the European Union is a case in point. The Greek state is rendered powerless and forced to accept conditions deeply unacceptable to its population in the name of the core stability of the integrated European market.
But this relation is just an internalization within Europe of the imbalance of capitalist power that has defined the dehumanizing relation between the "developed world" and the "developing world" for a long time. The state's humanistic aspirations (social welfare, universal rights, and respect of the person) have become subordinate to the economic "realities." Philosophy declared the humanism supposedly embodied in the modern state dead many decades ago. But it jumped the gun. It is the neoliberal-capitalist realism that pulled the trigger. Bill Clinton's 1992 presidential campaign slogan said it pithily: "it's the economy, stupid." Twenty-five years on, it still is. It has gotten to the point that it seems that many people have concluded that the only possible way around it is actually to install stupidity at the head of the state (candidate Donald Trump's belief that as president he could man-handle the economy with not-so-invisible little hands had pundits' heads swimming).