BM: I wouldn’t make a sharp distinction between them, because if you think about events in the way I was just talking about, every manner of event is pressing, or present in tendency, in the germinal phases of every other event. Every event detaches itself from the background noise of all the events it might have been. Which is a challenge more to history than to art, because it implies that to write history you have to do something like what Foucault calls archeology. It's not just about the causes of what happened. It's as much about the consistency of the might-have-been – the background of potential that events cut away from. It's as much about the doable as the done, and the sayable and the seeable, as the said and the seen. You have to make a distinction between conditioning and causing. The conditions of an event are always much broader than any linear causal relationship. The question of conditioning is: in what way, for this event, in its germination, have other modes of activity come into play, only to fall out of its rising arc? Even so, how may they have resonated together, and with the singularity of this arising event? How may they have interfered with each other, to inflect the event's happening, even though they didn't enter directly into its constitution? Might that tension, that germinal intensity of activity, have contributed to the singularity of what happened as it followed its own tendency to completion? Might it even potentially complicate the birth of the event so that what happens might actually have to take a new tack, even invent a tendency for itself? I would situate the aesthetic on this nascent level of event-conditioning. The aesthetic has to do with the overfullness with potential of what actually happens, and the renewal that comes of it. It's that dimension of experience, and any attunement to it. I wouldn’t separate out the aesthetic as a separate domain or realm of activity. The aesthetic is a dimension of every event's arising. The question then becomes a very pragmatic and constructive one.  By what means can that dimension of a given event be brought out? By bringing it out, can you develop the aesthetic dimension into a tendency in its own right? What would happen if you did, and then took that tendency to the limit of what it could do? That would be the job of art: to distill the aesthetic dimension belonging to every event into an event in itself.