Another example I like comes from the philosopher Suzanne Langer. It's the example of being in the kitchen in front of the sink washing dishes when you sense a scurrying in the periphery of your experience. It's a niggling feeling that you couldn't even identify as something you're hearing. Even if it's just a niggling, it braces you into the coming event. You know already it's coming, without knowing what it is that's coming. Then you see a movement on the periphery of your vision. It's not yet a sight. It's a niggling feeling at the edge of vision. The scurrying sound and the scurry of almost-seen movement fuse. In their interrelation, an immediately lived hypothesis imposes itself: mouse. You brace for a mouse event. You are in-braced into a mousing event. The event is immediately vectorized in terms of its mouse potential: the mouse could be coming towards you, it could be going past you, you could be going in one direction, it could be going in another. You 'see' all this as a tangle of abstract lines – mouse trajectories and human trajectories, in their interrelation. Mouse tendencies and human tendencies dancing around each other, playing themselves out together. The tangle sorts itself out as soon as you consciously register the mouse form, as soon as you cognise it. Now the event resolves into one abstract line: the immediate past of the mouse's movement arcing toward a terminus. You don't just see the mouse. What you mainly see is the arcing, its dynamic form – its semblance – and you act accordingly, by jumping aside or rushing after in attack. What you've seen and act according to is the semblance of the event. Nothing sensuous corresponds to it. What you're "seeing" is the abstract double of the event, still with some unresolved potential (the mouse could still veer, you could hesitate between fight and flight). So the semblance weaves together the immediate past, the immediate future in the dynamic unity of the event that is seen without being visible. If you just saw the visible mouse and not the dynamic unity, you'd be powerless to react. The event is moving too fast to visually track the mouse. You don't so much see the mouse, as the abstract mouse-line of the event.