BM: That’s a very good question. I was talking earlier about how an event-based way of thinking centers on process. Capitalism itself is a process, the prime process of our epoch. As a process, it shares a lot of the characteristics I was talking about. As markets have become saturated with consumer objects, capitalism has become more and more focused on selling experience. Its constant need for turnover means that it's centrally concerned with the emergence of experience, its repetition and variation in new iterations. This focuses it on what I was just describing as the aesthetic dimension. When I was talking about vitality affect and the semblance as a qualitative double that is the thinking-feeling of what’s happening, but comes in excess over any literal interpretation of the event, I was talking about a kind of surplus-value – a surplus-value of life. Surplus-value of life is in excess over function, utility, already known structures of meaning, and even the strictly material conditions of the event's occurring. It's what art is in the business of producing. But more and more, capitalism is literally in the business of doing the same thing. We all know the slogans: the experience economy, the creative economy, immaterial production. Capitalism, at its leading edge, is mad about producing surplus-values of life. It's excited about inciting movements of emergence and of expression, tendencies and potentials. But what it's most excited about is capturing them – channeling them into the production of its own mode of surplus-value, which is monetary surplus-value. It's all about monetizing experience, to the point that for the neoliberal economy we are no longer human beings, but "human capital." Capitalism has learned to exploit experience at its emergent level, and to channel the emergence toward its own ends, which are purely quantitative: more. More turnover, more profit, always faster. It's all about excess, but not qualitative excess. It's about quantitative excess, which can only be produced capitalistically in a way that mass produces inequality.