The problem that I grapple with is that this emergent level is also where you connect with the aesthetic dimension. That means that when art goes there, in a sense it's going into the heart of the capitalist process. There's almost no way for artistic activity to evade capitalist capture. Just think of the emphasis today on art-based research. The neoliberal university, which is more and more indexed to the market economy, loves it because it sees it as a way of coralling art for the capitalist process, as a way of capturing the surplus-values of life art produces and channeling them into monetary value production. It sees practice-based research as a product development laboratory for the creative economy. There is no getting around this question of complicity. Some people, like Žižek for example, say that it invalidates the whole event-based, process-oriented approach, that the whole approach is complicit through and through because of it. But another way of thinking about it is that it gives creative practice a point of contact with the capitalist process, at that problematic node where it converges with aesthetic activity. Why can't that be a strategic node, where the potentials entering into process might be leveraged in a different way? Perhaps they can be made to evade being captured for the market and channeled toward the production of monetized surplus-value. Perhaps countertendencies might be found at that emergent level that are affirming surplus-values of life as values in themselves, and not just as qualitative means to quantitative ends? Let's face it, we're all complicit with the capitalist process. There's no standing outside it. There's no way of surviving without being complicit with it. So the question for me is less to denounce complicity. That's all too easy. The question is to experiment with modulating complicity, to learn how to inflect it toward other kinds of emergences which, at the limit, might be capable of composing a purely qualitative alter-economy of life-value. I think that imagining and constructing qualitative alter-economies is a major task of our time. And it's a task that can only be done collectively.