BM: Yes, because you have to step outside of your normal ways of entering into conversation or into a convivial situation, and reinvent them, without necessarily knowing what will come of it. And yes, the question of duration is really crucial. As you say, there is a certain method of exhaustion built into This Situation that has broader implications. Deleuze always said that in order to create you have to first subtract. He's not necessarily referring to the number of elements, it's not a quantitative distinction he's aiming at. What he means by subtracting is putting in suspense the way things normally interconnect and roll onward together, so that there’s a moment of rejigging that has to happen for things to start going again. That moment of suspense can invite other tendencies in, and bring other unfoldings about. It's less important to claim to have a solution to problems, like whether the gallery is so compromised that art should go entirely elsewhere, or how to condition the performer-public relation, or whether an artist who sells his or her work is selling out. These questions are too general to be of value. What's important is not coming to supposedly final solutions to general questions. What's important is problematizing – creating singular fields of collective experimentation that make something happen that strikes you  as an event, and that offers a relational affordance to others who might want to take up the techniques used, and rework them in their own way, for other situations – a kind of event-variation contagion. That's not about community in the usual sense, but it is about collectivity. It's about collective potentiation that inheres in a fabric of uniquely interwoven events, rather than in any group identity.
Going back to the question of surplus-value, and the distinction I was trying to make between surplus-value of life and the monetary surplus-value of capitalism. I was talking about surplus-value of life as a qualitative excess over functionality, and over capturable utility, as a self-affirming, lived value that it is an end in itself, in a way that doesn't directly feed the capitalist process. A surplus-value of life that is truly uncapturable is, by virtue of that fact, ephemeral. It might return, but each repetition of it is a regeneration, a reinvention, with its own singular vitality affect. The balance shifts toward variation and newness in the sense I was talking about, as an event-quality that is inseparable from the event, and slips away the moment it is reified. So if we're interested in resisting capitalist capture, an important element of that would be to find ways of re-valuing the ephemeral. Capitalism is all about ephemerality, but only as it serves product turnover. Capitalism's interest in ephemerality is about what Schumpeter called "creative destruction." What I'm talking about is ephemerality as part of a process of potentiation. Each singular iteration of an event has contributed a potential to the world that is left in reserve, or in trace form, but as a reactivatable trace. Its newness is renewable, across iterations. What kind of practice could we envision that would be dedicated to the production, storage, and reactivation of event-tracings of this kind? What techniques could be invented for that? And for orienting the iterations politically? There’s a term that’s become popular that I like a lot: the 'anarchive'. There are a lot of definitions of it. I tend to think of it as an archive of events: an archive that stores only in order to hold an eventful coming-again in reserve, that holds in store for reactivation and variation, not to preserve. The anarchive seems to me to be an important avenue to explore in relation to the question that keeps coming up, of how to resist capitalism given there is no outside of it. Another aspect to grappling with that issue is collectivity. Just as in This Situation, when events truly renew themselves, when they are best able to improvise on themselves and invent new variations on their theme, it's because something has been conditioned to occur that's in surplus over the individual contributions. There's an emergent excess that’s irreducibly relational, making the collectivity a group-subject. How do you make yourself a group-subject? How do you transmit the conditions that make one emerge? If you succeed in transmitting group-subjecthood, rather than, say, a political platform or an ideology, the potentials are intense. The event-contagion will naturally tend to escape predefined channels, and may turn back against the State and against capitalism. We have seen a number of events in the last few years that have triggered this kind of contagious becoming. The Arab Spring and Occupy are the prime examples. What if we kept experimenting collectively, in whatever context we live or work in, to invent techniques for this kind of self-improvising movement?