BM: I think you’re absolutely right that it is precisely movement that needs to be interrogated, but it’s not an either/or between moving or not moving, because there’s no such thing as rest. Whitehead talks about one of the basic metaphysical concepts being a "principle of unrest." This dovetails with the idea of what I call an activist philosophy – a philosophy for which the fundamental concept is activity. As I was saying earlier, there’s always movement going on, of some kind, at some level. So movement or rest is not the question, but rather economies of movement and rest, by which I mean rhythms of movement, modes of movement, patterns of cut and continuity, of arising and perishing, and of the experiential qualities associated with those modes. There’s thinking and experimenting that needs to be done on how to counteract mechanisms of capture that we think of as stilling. Like the way a self-organizing political movement so often gets rechanneled into traditional politics, as happened last year to the 2012 Quebec student movement, which was on the verge of veering in explicitly anticapitalist directions when an election was called in response to the student demands. The movement got immediately rechanneled into electoral politics at that point. That was certainly a capture. But it wasn't a stoppage of the movement, it was a channeling of movement. The enormous energy and potential the movement had released was channeled into a different mode of activity, on a different level. The students "won" on their immediate macropolitical demand – tuition was not increased. But they lost their movement. The new government took it, and dissipated it. But there’s always something that continues across any capture, on what Deleuze and Guattari call the micropolitical level. 
Despite the term, it actually doesn’t mean politics on a smaller scale, although it can be, and in general it's easier to get it moving on smaller scales. What it actually refers to is imperceptibility. The micropolitical can occur at any scale, but wherever it is, it passes unrecognized. It isn't caught in the usual filters of activity and structures of understanding, because it embodies a singular mode of movement that's too ghostly or slippery for that. "Micropolitical" refers to a quality of movement – a movement doubled by its own semblance and resonating with the potential of that intensification. Deleuze and Guattari define the State as an "apparatus of capture" (1987: 424-473). It captures and channels, in order to slow things down and dissipate untoward potentials. Capitalism, on the other hand, captures in order to speed them up, for its own purposes. It mobilizes – but it’s important not to reduce movement to mobilization. The crucial point is that an apparatus of capture has to wait for things to start moving on their own before it can capture them and feed off them. It has to wait until the movements afoot become perceptible to it, so that it can apply its mechanisms to it. This isn't just a question of scale. Occupy was "imperceptible" to traditional politics, in the sense that it just didn't compute. What, no leaders? No demands? Group mechanisms of enunciation, like the human microphones? Something's going on here, but what it was totally escaped the grasp of those, on the Left or the Right, who think in terms of the traditional macropolitics of political programs, representation, and recognizable forms of advocacy. Occupy was not following a program. It was embodying the principle of unrest. It was operating on the germinal level of event-formation. For the participants, this did generate a surplus-value of life, a self-affirming qualitative intensity of the kind you don't often get to experience, and that never really leaves you. It leaves its traces. I can say that for certain, thinking back on my own formative involvement in the anti-nuclear movement in the 1970s and 1980s and the direct-action anarchist collectives I was working with and living with. It leaves traces, and the micropolitical unrest comes back, in other forms and other contexts, in imperceptible ways. So in the end, I don't consider Occupy or the Quebec student movement as failures. They succeeded in the way micropolitical movements always succeed. They feed potential forward, into the iterative event-fabric of life. You can feel a palpable change in Montreal since the student movement, a bubbling of energies and political imagination that you would never know was there if you weren't attuned to it. It certainly doesn't show up at the level of macropolitical debates, or in the media. 
There's no general rule, or sure-fire techniques for micropolitics. Slowness can be extremely useful given the acceleration of the mobilizing tendencies, but there are other ways of becoming imperceptible. It's more about qualities of movement than speed.