BM: Yes, there’s a difference in mode of organization, mode of activity, between the macropolitical and the micropolitical. What characterizes the macropolitical is that it has a central or general organizing principle, which it tries to apply. That implies that what effectively organizes the field of relation, the social field, is somehow separable from it. The principle of organization comes from above, and then swoops down in order to make what happens on ground level conform with it, channel into its mechanism, and to pacify it. It is the anti-principle-of-unrest. It often has a representational mode of operating. Another characteristic is that macropolitics thinks in terms of bounded wholes, bounded unities. It is always concerned, even obsessed, with setting the boundary between the inside and the outside. This is even true of the most liberal democracy. To say that a representative democracy is "inclusive" presupposes a boundary that you cross to come in, which amounts to implicitly admitting that there have been exclusions. You just have to look at the way migration and refugee issues are playing out in Europe and North America to see how fundamental the notion of the social field as a bounded whole is to the macropolitical State. 
At the micropolitical level, things are very different. For one thing, the principle of unrest rises up, it doesn't swoop down. It emerges into determinate expression. At the micropolitical level, there’s a multiplication of differentiations and a vagueness that's not a simple lack of definition, but an overfullness with potential. Whatever emerges from that germinal reality takes on a clarity and a precision where something determinate happens. But that's just a region of clarity surrounded by a penumbra of potentials held in reserve, in trace form. There’s a fringe or periphery that goes out in all directions, full of tendencies that have not been actualized, but might be at another moment, under different conditions. These potential movements might even infect or inflect what clearly happens without ever being actualized, just by exerting a pressure of potential. So the micropolitical field is a constitutively open multiplicity populated by tendencies and potentials, not subjects or objects. The macropolitical has a structural unity, it sets down boundaries and accretes centres of power, centres for the deployment of an order to which everything is called upon to conform. These centres of decision can be democratic in the representative sense, or they could be dictatorial. They can be distributed throughout the social field, or centralized in a monolithic State. The structural unity could even conceivably organize itself through a friendly consensus-based democracy. But then it could just as well be a fascism that gets so obsessed with policing the boundary of what's in and what gets excluded that it turns murderous. The macropolitical is itself a tendency that takes many forms of expression. But there is always the concern for the boundedness of the field of relation. For macropolitics, everything within that field must be well identified and defined, it has to have an assignable position in a structure of power. On the micropolitical level, on the other hand, there is always a surplus of organization, or better, organizability: a surplus-value of life stirring in the between of positioned things, moving to take its own form of expression, self-organizing and self-affirming. Broadly, micropolitics corresponds to what macropolitical discourse dismisses as the pipe-dream of "direct democracy." I prefer to think of it as the nightmare of the State.