BM: Yes, it is braided with all kinds of affects. Normally there’s a dominant affect that is unrefuseable, that takes you in, and in which you have no choice but to believe, because that's just the quality of what's happening. That's what Whitehead calls the "affective tonality" that imposes itself at the beginning of an event, and marks the transition from the last event into this one. He uses the example of anger. When your life partner gets angry at you, you don't have to stop and think about what kind of event this is. You feel it, unmistakeably. You already know that you're in an anger-event, and there's no way to unchoose being there, you have to deal with it. At that moment, the anger is much more than an emotion. It’s colored by any number of other emotions – shame, love, a desire for reconciliation. What we think of as an emotion is an affective nexus. It always envelops a whole spectrum, just as every color on the spectrum is inhabited by other colors. It's only after the event that you can tie up the nexus neatly enough to fit into a single category, and leave behind the fullness with immediate spectrum of feeling, which can be frightful because of its intensity, and destabilizing because of its multipleness. The reason to say "affect" rather than "emotion" is that affect carries a bodily connotation. Affect, coming out of Spinoza, is defined very basically as the ability to affect and be affected. But you have to think of the affect and being affected together as a complex, as two sides of the same phenomenon that cuts across subject positions. You are affected by anger, but you also affect it in return, for example by stiffening up to repel it or to brace for a fight. Your affecting your being-affected-by the anger immediately affects the other person. The force of their anger has shifted, and with it the potentials they have in that situation. Affect escapes the active-passive opposition, and it always directly operates transindividually. The bodily dimension is that the feelings this transindividual affective nexus carry envelop incipient actions, they're already incipient actions. When you bristle in the face of another's anger you stiffen as in anticipation of a punch. The other's anger has already hit like an inhibited punch, it carried germs of punching that were not allowed to unfold, but still hit you with an abstract force. Semblances can hurt. That's why the concept of affect is so fundamental to an activist philosophy. It gives you a way of thinking about emotion, and other things we take to be interior and subjective, in terms of activity and movements in the world.