This means that the transition from the Object to the interpretant is not, as it is too often made out to be, a transition from the objective in the usual sense to the subjective as normally understood. Something else entirely is at stake: that "the minds of the utterer and the interpreter have to be fused in order that any communication should take place" (Peirce 1998: 478; emphasis added). This Peirce enigmatically names the Commind (commens). It "consists of that which is, and must be, well understood between the utterer and the interpreter, at the outset, in order that the sign in question should fulfill its function" (478). In light of Peirce's statements that the utterer and interpreter are inessential, this definition needs to be amended to: the commind "consists of that which is, and must be, well understood between the utterer and the interpreter, should they be present, or at points where the process does not recede collaterally into the gaps or come to loose ends …" Elsewhere it is more vaguely understandable. Even where there is a well-understanding utterer and interpreter, the Commind is not just "what is forced upon the mind in perception, but includ[es] more than perception reveals" (478). This more-than can only be all the more so in the gaps of potential into which perception's seek its would-be interpretants. So when Peirce says "between" the utterer and interpreter it has to be taken in the strongest sense, as involving the continuum potentially inhabiting the gaps in the situation into which the quaesitum recedes. This effectively extends the Commind well beyond what is "well understood" at the outset, into the processual more-than of the situation: to the partial objects that are also partial subjects. The Commind exceeds the individual subject of perception by nature. It shades into the more-than of the situation's immanent all – where it is always and in any case "already virtually present" (Peirce 1998: 403). It fuses not only utterers and interpreters, should they be present; more-than that, it fuses the effective infinity of partial objects and partial subjects on the continuum of potentially completed existence filling the situation. In the Commind, the Object of expression becomes all but one with a collective (commensal) Subject that is irreducibly environmental. It is this all-in-and-around of the situation that virtually thinks itself, always. In every case, it is essentially the situation's virtual thinking of itself that self-reports through the process of semiosis.