Conceptual speed dating is a pragmatic technique for staging the autonomy of collective expression within the particular situation of a given, finite group of utterers and interpreters. In the particular context of the SenseLab, it is a technique for would-be collaborators seeking to transduce their encounter with a generative text into improvisational follow-on explorations in other modes than textual, where linguistic expression moves into an intimacy of thinking-feeling with other-sense activity. 
The individuals involved in this practice themselves carry collaterals: their moods, habits, technical and social skills, acquired knowledge, any number of things. In fact, an effective infinity of things. These are also partial objects of the thought-expression that occurs, incumbent in their own way in the situation. Whether or not they are sought, whether or not there is a group determination to determine them, they belong to the form-of-fact of the situation and in-form its potential. Whether sought or not, they self-report: in the strategies an individual deploys to negotiates the enabling constraints of the exercise, in particular the time-limit, and how as a function of those strategies the collective movement of thought-expression is inflected. Sought or not, this range of partial objects of expression are partial subjects of enunciation, by virtue of their inflecting the self-reporting of the situation's all. Although they are usually considered factors "internal" to a speaking subject, the technique of speed dating activates them on the same basis as other situational factors that would normally be categorized as "external." In short, speed dating activates what is normally taken as the personal characteristics of the individual participants as a subset of the environmental factors in play. This is done in order to express thought, in the sense used earlier of forcing thought out, like the juice from a fruit, so that it lubricates the situation where it collectively moves, in all of its dimensions, involving all of its collaterals operating on the same speculatively pragmatic plane: a kind of "flat ontology" of expression in actual experience.