It is interesting to note here that the capitalist relation is essentially a time-form, and that as a time-form its native tense is the future. Now, a for-profit prison bathes in the capitalist relation. It participates in it on all sides, including on the inside. It lives for the capital flows it captures and channels into surplus-value production. But it also captures flows of criminality and channels them into a different form of surplus-value production: a surplus-value of social order, of normalization. Or at least, it produces as a surplus-value the affects associated with these, even if the ends of social order and normalization are not actually met. Which they aren't. At any rate, the disciplinary logic of normalization is not specifically capitalist. It is found in many kinds of society. I would go so far as to argue that it doesn't correspond to the actual direction in which the logic of neoliberalism preferentially moves. The watchword of neoliberalism is not "conform," but rather "excel": exceed the norm. Its call is to "innovate": reinvent the norm. The direction of movement is toward the supernormal. The very idea that there is a normal situation has gone out the window. The situation is understood to be complex, if not chaotic, and the job of the business executive or entrepreneur is to learn how to creatively depart from normal operating procedures in order to make a peerless leap that seizes upon the singularity of the situation – rather than confirming and conforming to a notion of its regularity. I do not agree with critiques of presentday capitalism that lament its homogenizing effects. Its logic embraces heterogeneity, and fosters it, on the condition that the resulting variation remain within the orbit the capitalist relation. From this point of view, the ostensibly normalizing function of the prison might be seen as a compensatory mechanism for the supernormal disruptiveness of capitalism's logic: a calmative balm for the harried voter. This might be a useful defense mechanism for capitalist business as usual, but that does not change the fact that the its logic is different from the logic that of the capitalist relation as such.