outside the art  market narrowly defined. The  faintest promise of patentability delivers creative activity to the category of “intellectual property” (IP). Where art  becomes IP, the productively contentious issues—ethical, aesthetic, political, ontological—that have historically played themselves out around the place and nature of the “work of art” are backgrounded in favor of the economic annexation of the sphere of creative activity and the value-adding capture of its products.7
The  economization of creative activity in Montreal is not confined to academic institutions. It begins to literally change the face  of the city. In
2006, the city  of Montreal embarked on a large-scale redevelopment of a central-city district into a new Quartier des Spectacles.8 The plan was dedicated to solidifying the city’s marketing position internationally as an artsand-culture “Festival City.” The  first  visible step was  a “lighting plan” to create a signage system to help rebrand the central-city area  targeted for reinvigoration, which included the red-light district.9 The  lighting project experiments with marking the urban landscape to make its  repurposing visible, with the light motif attracting passersby to key sites. The  red  light of the district expands its  connotation toward a vividness of experience open in a variety of forms to all who walk  the streets, bringing to the fore local artists’ creative input on lighting and urban design. Here, researchcreation extends to urban “experience design” with a mission to facilitate another industry tie-in: the tourism and hospitality industries. Experience design in light, annunciatory field-effect of a concrete remobilization of a coming arena of urban operation, has  shown the way.  The  spotlight then turned to major construction and renovation projects as the Quartier des Spectacles’s urban redevelopment scheme entered its  central phase. Artresearch in practice has  contributed to the opening of a major portfolio in the city’s  economic strategy. Arts-related redevelopment strategies have even spread to the rural areas of Quebec. Headline about redevelopment plans for a southern Quebec ski station fallen on hard times because of climate change: “25-Million-Dollar Tourist Project: Good-Bye Condos, Hello Technological Arts.”10