3 	The  ideas brought forth and the positionings effected would have to be performed in connection with texts everyone had read. This  enabling constraint of “activating” ideas on site,  in and for  the group interactions, was  essential given the differences in participants’ backgrounds, as well as differences in age and professional status. No common set of references could be assumed. To  prevent one group or  individual from being silenced or disqualified, each would be encouraged to “activate” what they knew or  could do  in a way  that was  anchored in a shared and always available print-based resource. This  performative anchoring of  each person’s contribution was  especially important  for  bringing philosophy into the co-causal mix, given how potentially exclusionary philosophical language may feel to those in other fields. But the same principle applied to other areas as well:  a simple movement exercise can be as intimidating to the perpetually deskbound theorist as an elaborate philosophical text is to the movement practitioner. This  gave  rise  to an emergent technique of  relation. Despite careful preparation, the philosophical plenaries at Dancing the Virtual and subsequent events did  have a tendency to become just that: plenaries. In a quick regrouping after a Whitehead plenary that seemed to silence the nonphilosophers in the room, Andrew Murphie came up with a brilliant proposition: conceptual speed dating. This  technique of relation has  since become a mainstay not only at SenseLab events but in classrooms across the network. The  proposition is this: take half the group and classify them as “posts.” Their job is to sit or stand or lie in position in a circular formation at the edges of the room. The other half are “flows.” As in speed dating, the flows  move from one post to another, clockwise, at timed intervals. Next, find what Deleuze and Guattari call a “minor” concept—a concept that activates the philosophical web  of a text without drawing attention to itself as a special term. This  is where the real  work comes in:  the concept has  to be  understated enough that it has  not yet  entered common understanding and undergone the generalization that comes with that, but it must be  active  enough that the whole conceptual field  of the work feeds through it. For Dancing the Virtual, the minor concept chosen was  “terminus,” found in William James’s work (specifically Essays in Radical Empiricism). “Terminus” is a term that is often overlooked but is integral to the weave of James’s philosophy. It refers to the tendency orienting the unfolding of an event as it senses its potential completion and follows itself to its culmination. The  terminus is a forward-driving force that carries an event toward its accomplishment. It is an organizing force exerted by the end, from the very  beginning, and through every step.24 For the conceptual speed dating, the group is given the term, as well as a passage or page number to start from. At fiveminute intervals, the flows move from one post to another, trying to sort out the concept. The force of the exercise plays itself out not only in the working-through of the concept in pairs, but perhaps even more so in the moving-forward to the next pairing, where a discussion takes up again, already infused with the previous conversations. This  stages a collective thinking process, as individuals’ ideas disseminate and mutate through continually displaced pairings. In Dancing the Virtual,  the conceptual speed dating had a catalytic effect, giving the event a pivot concept around which to unfold.