Just as language comes late, speedy equation-solving also  comes late. The event, intensified by the field  effects of relational potential, entrains as an afterthought. This  leaves the commotional complexity of  the moment in gyration. “Moments could get  out of control,” Mukhopadhyay writes, “when they became unpredictable and too large  for my senses to accumulate all that they involved within their field. One moment, you may look at a picture, and at the same time you are aware of the pink wall  around the picture, you are  also  aware of Jack’s  voice explaining something about the picture. The very next moment you are looking at the reflection through its glass  frame, which is competing for attention while you are looking at the picture. You may see a part of the room reflected in the glass,  and you may be so absorbed in the reflection that you may not hear anything from Jack’s voice because you suddenly discover that those reflections are conspiring to tell you a story. Jack’s voice may float in that story as big or small bubbles” (2008, 52–53). Voice and reflections in a struggle to define the predominant experiential register of the event, voice vying to background reflection, reflection endeavoring to encompass voice as a bubbling parcel of itself. This  is the experience of a conversation for  Mukhopadhyay. Immersion in the activity of the field, alive with competing tendencies to sort itself out. The  focus is less on what might typically be assumed to be the “content” of the conversation than on its dynamic form: the performative tendencies enacting the event of its self-relating. The  playing out of  the tendencies is what sorts out the field. “Moments are  defined by what your senses are compelled to attend to,” Mukhopadhyay continues. “A moment may include a shadow of Jack’s chair falling on the floor or a pen peeping out from the pile  of papers, perhaps wishing to have a voice so that it could say aloud, ‘Here  I am!  Here  I am!’”  (2008, 52–53). The  cry of expression already sounds in the field. The  field  is already expressing a tendency toward something singling-out. Even now, in the immediacy of the moment, something is already calling out for  the right to stand out, efficaciously or poetically— it is not yet clear.