Each  participant was asked to bring a wrapped gift.  The  gift  was to be given to another participant, but was  not for that individual. It  was  to be a gift to the event,  through that individual. The  gift giving was an alternative to prolonged introductions. Its role  was to energize the opening of the event. Each  SenseLab event has  begun with an alternative to the ritual of self-introductions. The problem with self-introductions is just that: they are self-introductions. They bring people together based on preestablished identities (professor, student, nonacademic; maker, theorist; dancer, choreographer, media artist, philosopher) with histories of past accomplishments shoring up that identity. However gently they are proffered, they implicitly position, hierarchize, and divide. It would be  disingenuous to hold that it would be  possible—or desirable—for personal histories and individual identities to be neutralized and play no role, as if we could check them at the door. The  question is rather: what is being set in place that will qualitatively inflect the coming interactions when self-introduction is chosen as the vector of entry? In what way  does this prime the event and inflect the qualities of its interactions? How else  may the event be primed? The SenseLab’s refrain in answer to this question is that there are other ways  of coming together that are tangential to identity and professional positioning  (intersecting with them up to a point but enacting tendencies that are not reducible to them, following trajectories that exceed their limitative frame). The  idea is to find ways  of coming together that do not cement us to our preformatted ideas of what we have to bring and who we will  be for the event. Instead, we endeavor to create technique-driven encounters transversal to the identities in play (rather than in denial of or in opposition to them). SenseLab participants are  invited to bring their care, their concerns, their affinities, their passions, and most especially the techniques in which these are  performatively invested, and to enter the event along those  vectors.  Generating the  Impossible’s  inaugural gift-giving ceremony was set in place as an initial launching pad for this transversal exploration.