5 I would like to mention Gregory Siegworth and  Eugene Holland in particular.  I have   also   read   recently  Jeremy   Gilbert,   “Becoming  Music:   The  Rhizomatic Moment of Improvisation”; Marcel Swiboda, “Cosmic  Strategies: The Electric Experiments of Miles Davis”—both from  the  recent  collection  Deleuze and Music edited by Ian Buchanan and  Marcel  Swiboda.  Both address issues  raised in this essay,   and   especially,  note  my  discussion  of  Miles  Davis’s  composition  “Its About  That  Time”  from  the  album In A Silent Way, with  reference to Swiboda’s essay.  Since  I began  this  study, the  jazz  saxophonist and  musicologist David Borgo  has  produced a  brilliant  work   on  jazz  improvisation  and   complexity theory, Sync or Swarm: Improvising Music in a Complex Age.  I would like to thank Klas Nevrin, a gifted  free jazz pianist from  Stockholm, for recently pointing out this  study to  me.    A fine  jazz  saxophonist in  his  own  right,  Borgo  has  made insightful connections between a large range  of scientific  practices and  jazz performance, and  has made  an important contribution to understanding contemporary “free”  jazz improvisation, exemplified by Sam Rivers,  using  what his mentor N. Katherine Hayles  calls “the figure  in the carpet” approach to chaos—that is, finding patterns in disorder. In particular, his use of  Rolf Bader’s work  on  the  “fractal  correlation dimension” to explore  the  distinction between “sync”  and  “swarm” or performative synchrony and  dispersion amongst jazz musicians (as manifest visually through the analysis of sound waves  exterior to the  performing  musicians), indeed  points  to  the  need   for    further research, research that  I address from  a  different angle  in  Part  Two  on  embodied and distributed cognition and  neuro-anatomy.  Where  we  differ,  I suggest, is in the scale of focus and  historical context.   Borgo raises and  discusses briefly just about every  “school” of complexity studies, and  every  figure  associated with  it from Ralph   Abraham,  to   Edward  Lorentz;   from   Benoit   Mandlebrot     to   Stuart Kauffman, from René Thom to Ilya Prigogine; from Humberto Maturana and Francisco   Varela  to  Heinz   von  Forester;     from  Edwin Hutchins and  Antonio Damasio to Varela again.   Here  I focus on a few key concepts within a particular historical sequence from  Charlie  Parker to the  birth  of Free Jazz: the  distinction between reversible and irreversible time in the analysis of the problematic role of music  notation in  classical  music  and   jazz  with  respect to  deterministic and contingent  musical trajectories;  Bergson’s  concept of “creative evolution” as a