configurations and  shapes, and  often  alternate at the  rate  of twenty-five frames per  second.   The arrangement of vertical  stripes in Colour Bars adopts the  basic pattern of the test signal  image.  Sometimes there  are only  two  colours  on screen at any  one time  because the width of the bars  has been  expanded.  For the most part  the full complement fills the screen,  though they have often been shifted horizontally one  way  or  the  other.    In Thirds (2006), which  is a piece  for  two projectors, only  one  colour  at a time  appears from  each  of the  projectors.15    The light  projected  by  each  beam,  at  any  one  moment, is  a  solid  block  of  digital colour.   These  colour  fields  are the  antithesis of high  definition video  imagery - where  millions of  pixels  per  frame   offer  the  capacity  to  distinguish minute differences in the detail  of a picture - because each pixel is of an equivalent value to every  other  pixel within the same  frame.  In this regard, it makes  very efficient use of the chroma subsampling process described earlier  in the essay.16     The overlapping projection beams  in Thirds make  for widescreen proportions, but the two  pieces   that   I  made   subsequently,  New  Ratio  (2007)  and   Iris  Out  (2008), explicitly deal  with  the  move  from  the  standard definition aspect  ratio  of 4:3 to the widescreen aspect  ratio  of 16:9.17   In New Ratio, the rectangle at the centre  of the   screen   involves  a  concentration  of  colours   in   sequences  that   overlap, producing an intermittently brighter palette.  At the same time the full frame alternating background  colour   fields  reinforce and   exercise  the  edges   of  the screen.    New  Ratio is  the  first  of  the  videos  in  this  series  of pieces  to  have  a soundtrack.  In the first instance I appropriated the standard 1KHz test tone  that comes  with  the  colour  bars.    I halved its  pitch  to  make  the  lowest  tone  that  I would use, and  then  produced tones  at equal  intervals between these  two points assigning each tone to one of the colours  between yellow  and  blue, in descending order.  The pulse  of the  looping colour  fields  and  sound sequences propel the rhythm of the  piece.   In Iris Out,  the  circles  that  expand and  contract refer  to a form  of transition that  is sometimes used  at the  start  or end  of film scenes.   In certain   passages  of  the   video,   the   combination  of  circles   and   ellipses   also resembles an eye, returning the gaze of the spectator.