The colours  in each of these  pieces are mixed  in different ways.   Some sections  of Colour Bars comprise two  layers  of  video  - which   were  superimposed in  the timeline of the editing software that  I used  to construct the piece - making for a palette of possibly twenty-eight colours.   In compositing these sections  the colour values  of the pixels in each layer were added together. In Thirds, it is the two overlapping projections  that  produce the  effect  of  superimposition.   Different cycles of the eight  basic colours  are projected by each beam  and  in the overlap a third lighter set  of colours  are  mixed.    This  is a truly  additive mode  of colour mixing,   which   results  from   the   direct   mixture  of  light   when  the   piece   is projected.18   There are two further modes of additive colour  mixing  that  occur  in each  of the  videos  from  Colour Bars through to Iris Out: the  red,  green  and  blue pixels  in  the  surface  of the  projected  image  mix  to  produce the  full  palette of colours  that  are perceived when one stands back from  the image;  and  then  there is the mixture of colours  that occurs when the colour  fields alternate every  frame. This last form of colour  mixing  is due  to the persistence of vision  and the effect of positive and  negative afterimages. R.L. Gregory refers to the persistence of vision as the “inability of the retina  to signal  rapidly changing intensities” (1998: 116).19
An  optical   mixture  of  colours   is  produced  by  the   inability  to  differentiate between the several  colours  that pass before the eye in quick succession. Positive and   negative  afterimages are  also  contributory factors.     Positive   afterimages come  in the  first  few  seconds after  the  eye has  been  exposed to a bright light, especially when viewed in  darkness;  negative afterimages occur  subsequently and  are  more  visible  against a light  surface  (Gregory, 1998: 57).   Livingstone refers  to  colour  afterimages in  her  account of  opponent colour  coding that  I referred to earlier:  “If you  stare  at a red  spot  you  will  see a cyan  afterimage, if you stare  at a blue spot  you will see an yellow  afterimage, and  so on” (2002: 92). The   effects   associated  with   the   persistence  of  vision   and   afterimages  are suggestive, but  to  what  degree can  they  account for  the  colours  that  one  sees when the stimuli come in varying sequences at 25 frames  per second?