To move is to create (with) sense. A body perceives through difference. A change in environment provokes a sensory event. Whitehead suggests that perception is both sensuous (sensed) and non-sensuous (a direct perception of pastness in the present). To perceive is not simply to accumulate sense-data: it is to directly sense relation as the virtual activity inherent in the taking-form of objects and worlds. It is not that a “subject” perceives a world but that the world is pulled into experience. This activity of “pulling” suggests that there is no subject-position that precedes experience. Without an initial perceiving subject, a preformed body cannot exist. Worlding occurs in the process of a world becoming subject, or a subject becoming world. Or, to extend the analysis, subjects are transitory individuations in a processual worlding whereby certain actualities take form in a nexus of “contemporarily independent” events.48
To understand the stakes in this argument, it is necessary to think actuality in terms of the stopgap of perception: about a half-second. What we perceive, we perceive always at a delay such that this perception is already composed of the holes of experience.49 I do not perceive an object per se, the objectness is prehended (drawn out from a pastness in a way that is qualitatively new) as an event that space-times me. Through the prehension, “I” am subjectified as an instance of that particular object-event. This object-event constructs me—individuates me—as much as it is individuated by me. Such an experience is actively creative: “I” must assist the perception, fill up its holes, give it form. This giving-form happens as “I” (as individuating event) fill in the gaps of perception, giving the object a contour or a background (that “I” may not directly have perceived), situating it in a worldness that cannot be separated from it. As “I” do this, “I” am also individuating (moving beyond any kind of discrete “I-ness” or thanness) on a plane of becoming that Whitehead calls an actual occasion. “I” am not detached from this process, and yet “I” am only composed by it to the extent that it will initiate my infinite re-composition. I is an event.