To look at the desert paintings produced in the era of acrylic dot painting is to have a sense of survol, of seeing the landscape from above. These paintings reflect not a passive observation of a landscape below but a way of life where above and below fold into one-another. To see the landscape through them is to experience it, to live it, engaging all surface points at the same time, virtually, actually. It is, as Raymond Ruyer might suggest, to engage in infinite survol across the landscape’s own absolute surface. To look is to become-with the landscape, to move from within as much as from above, experiencing the Dreaming not as an outsider to the everyday but through the vista of a metamorphosis that refuses to privilege the above or the below, the close or the far. As Barbara Glowczewski writes: “[Aboriginal] cosmology defines itself as a movement of coming and going between Kankarlu (the above) which refers to the present and everything which constitutes the terrestrial and celestial environments, and Kanunju, the ‘below,’ which refers to the past, to the underground, to the interstellar, and everything that can happen” (1989, 213). The manifest and the latent, the finite and the infinite, the actual and the virtual: these are the concerns of Aboriginal cosmology.
Kngwarreye’s paintings are sensing concepts, absolute surfaces or volumes that “have no other object than the inseparability of distinct variations” (Deleuze and Guattari 1994, 21). The Dreaming is a concept of the most extraordinary kind, a concept that speaks not of unity but of wholeness, that lives the virtuality of its concreteness transspatially in a dimension of space-time that always remains to be invented. Kngwarreye’s genius is her ability to convey this through paint. Her paintings emote vibrations that are rhythms, themselves singing the songs of space-time. To create these songs, what Kngwarreye seeks—in continuity with painters such as Clifford Possum—is the annihilation of the figural. She does tell stories, but these stories rely on synesthetic experience, on a coming together of elements that are in infinite patterns of reachings-toward space-times of experience.