27. Nora Heilmann evokes Steve Paxton’s small dance in one of her recent dance ex- periments. With Paxton’s guidance, she defines the small dance as “the little movements around the skeleton that help you balance.” Here, in Heilmann’s words, is an exercise of Paxton’s to find and work with the small dance: “Find your balance. Find your concentra- tion. Easy breathing. Watch the small dance, the little movements around the skeleton that help you balance. Relax your coccyx. Relax your sacrum. Long inhalations. Long exhalations. Diaphragm moving down with inhalation, up with exhalation. Feel your weight on the floor. Agreeing with gravity. Organs relaxing down into the bowl of the pel- vis. Bowl of the pelvis receiving the organs. Easy sternum. Easy means: observe the small dance. Feel the dome of your skull suspending upwards. Feel the length of your spine extending through your head towards the ceiling. Relax your shoulders. Feel the direc- tion of your arms falling away from the spine. Without changing that direction, find the smallest stretch in that direction. Release. Can it be smaller? Where does it start? Where could it start? What is the smallest thing we can perceive? What is the smallest stretch? The smallest fall? The edge of movement? Relax your shoulders. Relax your arms. In the direction that your arms are hanging, without changing that direction, find the smallest stretch. Release. Feel your finger prints, beyond the fingers, pointing downwards. Feel the small dance. Adjust your mind to the continuous changes. Imagine but don’t do it: imagine you are taking a step with your right foot. Imagine but don’t do it: imagine you are taking a step with your right foot. With your left foot. Right, left right left, right, left. Stand. Balance. Feel the small dance” (2006).
28. The drug administered by Sacks in 1967 was L-dopa. Dopamine was found to be very effective with those suffering with Parkinson’s and did prove to have startling effects on those suffering from post-encephalitis lethargica.
29. Oliver Sacks writes: “Patients lack the will to enter upon or continue any course of activity, although they might move quite well if the stimulus of command or request to move came from another person—from the outside” (1990, 9). I don’t think this shows a lack of will as Sacks suggests. Movement is not simply volition—in the sense of “I want to move, or I don’t want to move.” Movement as outfolding is a reaching toward not only of a body, but of the very recombination of bodies and space-time. Worlding creates bodies as much as moving bodies create worlds. These are bodies always qualitatively different from the bodies of a split second before—bodies recombining, sensing toward a continual differentiation of what they know the world to be. These recombinations are not possible if movement cannot be activated. Hence an obsessive infolding that leads only to its own compulsive repetition.
30. “Inertia is a tendency of an object to resist change in its state of motion. More massive objects have more inertia; that is, they have more tendency to resist change. An elephant has a lot of inertia, for example. If it is at rest, it offers a large resistance to changes in its state of rest, and so it’s difficult to move an elephant. On the other hand, a pencil has a small amount of inertia. It’s easy to move a pencil from its state of rest” (www.learner
.org/exhibits/parkphysics/glossary.html).
Notes to Pages 51–56	233