31. It is important to underline the role of habit in auto-activation. If we locate auto- activation within the register of “will,” we suggest two things: (1) movement-toward hap- pens in the actualization of a movement, not an incipiency, (2) movement-toward is a question of a conscious decision-making process. As stated in note 29, I believe neither to be the case. Auto-activation takes place in the pastness of movement moving (the reg- ister of habit) that takes movement by surprise. Our very capacity to move depends on the quality of incipiency out of which movements-toward form. Were we to think about every movement we made, we would likely be locked in nonmovement. Sack’s patients lack no will. They lack the embodied relation between pastness and futurity that brings together the experience of movement with movement moving.
32. In Sacks’s recent book, Musicophilia: Tales of Music and the Brain (2007), he re- turns to the question of the auto-activation of his post-encephalitic patients of the 1960s and underlines the important role music often played in their awakenings. For these patients—and indeed for many others temporarily “frozen,” including those with severe Parkinson’s—music plays a large role not only in creating the capacity for relation in ex- periential space-time but also for altering the quality of movement. Sacks talks at length of the way in which the patients’ movement flows in relation to music, and how their movements tend to becomes saccadic and tense with the withdrawal of the music. This suggests that music is a key non-pharmaceutical method for awakening patients from a catatonic state and giving them a fluidity of movement they otherwise lack.
33. In relation to symbolic reference, Whitehead writes: “We enjoy the symbol, but we also penetrate to the meaning. The symbols do not create their meaning: the meaning, in the form of actual effective beings reacting upon us, exists for us in its own right” (1927, 56). Symbolic reference is not a preconstituted reception of the world. It is how worlding transduces experience into perception.
34. Whitehead writes: “Presentational immediacy is our immediate perception of the contemporary external world, appearing as an element constitutive of our own ex- perience. In this appearance the world discloses itself to be a community of actual things, which are actual in the same sense as we are” (1927, 20). Presentational immediacy is intrinsically relational, in the sense that it builds out of relations with the actual world, but also nonsocial, in the sense that these relations refer directly back to the percep- tion as such. “These qualities are thus relational between the perceiving subject and the perceived things” (Whitehead 1927, 21). Presentational immediacy’s relationality is in- trinsically different from the relationality of causal efficacy, where relation is that which directly gives experience form. Symbolic reference is the completion of force with form that gives nuance to constituted experience, such that the nuances of qualitative percep- tion are directly in-mixed with the “how” of the world worlding.
35. The stories of “de-freezing” occur after Sacks administers L-dopa and the patients begin to have the experience of reaching-toward. Their “return” to their still state be- comes unbearable to them when L-dopa no longer operates effectively, which causes many of them to devise systems for unfreezing themselves.
234	Notes to Pages 58–63