36. This explains also why, when “awakened,” the patients could not situate themselves in time. This is particularly flagrant with Rose, who continues to act like a young girl in her twenties despite the fact that she is much older (in her sixties) when Sacks administers L-dopa.
37. This should not be mistaken with instinct: “The doctrine of symbolism developed [here] . . . enables us to distinguish between pure instinctive action, reflex action, and symbolically conditioned action. Pure instinctive action is that functioning of an organ- ism which is wholly analyzable in terms of those conditions laid upon its development by the settled facts of its external environment, conditions describable without any reference to its perceptive mode of presentational immediacy. This pure instinct is the response of an organism to pure causal efficacy” (Whitehead 1927, 78).
38. The quotation continues: “This means descriptions (what we think of as co- descriptions) of movement that can exist in both its own terms (as in physical) as well as in the symbolic abstractions that are necessary in order to use these techniques of ges- ture modeling, simulating, learning, following etc. with the computer.” deLahunta, “Co- descriptions and Collaborative Composition” (opening presentation, NIME06/IRCAM workshop Choreographic Computations, Paris, France, June 4, 2006a).
39. deLahunta, “Co-descriptions.” For an exploration of a decade of dance and technol- ogy, see also Scott deLahunta, “Dance (in the Presence and Absence of) Technology,” in En movement (inaugural issue), ed. B. Raubert and Q. Noguero, 16–17 (Barcelona: Theatre Institute Mercat de les Flors, October 2006b).
40. This is not to suggest that sincere thought has not been given to these issues. Many very interesting and innovative software composers are currently working with dancers and choreographers to explore the potential of creative continuums between software and innovative dance. In his recent dance/new-technology work, Scott de Lahunta calls this “choreographic compositions,” suggesting that the choreography of the dance is en- twined in the double process of composing software and creating movement.
The exploration of new technology with dance has a history that can be traced to the 1960s with choreographer Jeanne Beaman and computer scientist Paul Le Vasseur who created computer generated choreography using an IBM 7070. This platform randomly chose a sequence of events from a list of movements. John Lansdown, an architect, simi- larly explored the potential of using the computer as an autonomous composer, rather than to support or augment the existing creative process. Merce Cunningham’s methods are also well-known: the 3-D human figure animation software LifeForms continues to be used today in innovative work by Trisha Brown and William Forsythe. According to de Lahunta, what is new about the recent current of dance and new technologies is how systems are being built in correspondence to a choreographic creative process with an emphasis on the “shared understanding that emerges through the collaborative process. This is what we think to be both technically and creatively innovative” (deLahunta, “Co- descriptions”). This chapter does not seek to deny this important research, but to ask how such a process can or does become technogenetic.
Notes to Pages 63–72	235