55. I am evoking the Derridean usage of the supplement here as the more-than that is always integral to an open system. For a detailed exploration of the supplement, see Derrida 1978.
56. The amodal suggests that we sense across sense modes and that sense perception occurs in its emergent phase in a between that is as much body as world. The concept of “amodal completion” is developed by Albert Michotte. See Michotte 1991.
57. Whitehead calls forth this notion of non-sensuous perception in order to sidestep the tendency to think we make sense only through sense-data. Whitehead’s work chal- lenges the theory of sensory-reception whereby an impulse “out there” is processed by a mediating brain/body function that makes sense of a preexisting world.
58. In this case, Whitehead would say that the ground is “negatively” prehended.
59. Who’s Afraid of Red, Yellow and Blue (2007) was shown in a very large, high-ceilinged gallery space at the Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego. The work comprises three volumes, each defined by a 16 x 22 ft floor of lacquered aluminum panels (red, yellow, and blue) with an identical ceiling (suspended by cables from the gallery rafters). There are no walls to the volumes, so the viewer can look through the entire structure, walk in the narrow corridors separating the three “rooms,” or perceive it from wider afield. The non-cubes of color give a sense of an open enclosure where the middle space—where your perception usually occurs, is free of objects. The result: space-time itself becomes colored. Looking into the panels reveals reflections in the panels of complimentary col- ors. The complementary colors appear across the panels (if you look into the yellow, the reflection of the blue panel appears as purple). Complementary colors also appear in the reflection of the gallery’s clear windows, which, seen through the lacquered panels, now appear to be purple, green, and orange. The reflective panels also cause an uncanny expe- rience of mirroring, where we see ourselves reflected both standing up (looking directly at the panel at our feet) and upside down (looking at our reflection through the reflection of the hanging panel as reflected in the floor-level panel).
In a discussion afterward with Robert Irwin, he emphasized the importance of surprise in art. He said that since he cannot mock up the space before an exhibition, how the work emerges is always an event. For Irwin, a space doe not contain art, it conditions art’s pro- cess. Art creates perceptual events, and these are what Irwin is most interested in. Who’s Afraid of Red, Yellow and Blue (2007) becomes-with the environment it proposes, open- ing art to its own perceptual unfolding.
60. A stable perception of “just red” is impossible. What holds our perception of “red- ness” is its unstable relation to other colors, green in particular. For a more detailed ex- ploration of color see Massumi, “Brightness Confound,” in Massumi 2002.
61. Marey defines the imperceptible as that which the eye can’t see but is actually there.
Notes to Pages 84–105	237