62. I can only assume that given Marey’s explicit focus on measurability and positivism, this turn to the experiential and even the artistic (which he claimed was never a focus of his research) happened despite his best intentions.
63. My work on Valéry is indebted to a wonderful piece written by Brian Massumi, en- titled The Ideal Streak, where he situates drawing in relation to new media. This piece was presented as a keynote address at Cornell University in 2006.
64. William James defines pure experience as “the instant field of the present [that] is always experienced in its ‘pure’ state, plain unqualified actuality, a simple that, as yet undifferentiated into thing and thought, and only virtually classifiable as objective fact or as some one’s opinion about fact” (1912, 69).
65. Henri Bergson defines duration: “This indivisible continuity of change is precisely what constitutes true duration . . . Real duration is what we have always called time, but time perceived as indivisible” (1992, 149).
66. “[This is] confirmed with the zoetrope: at one point in both the trot and the gallop, all four of the horse’s legs were off the ground: ‘the body of the animal is, for an instant, suspended in the air’” (Marey, qtd. in Braun 1992, 30–31).
67. “When the eye ceases to see, the ear to hear, touch to feel, or indeed when our senses give deceptive appearances, these instruments are like new senses of astonishing preci- sion” (Marey, qtd. in Braun 1992, 40)
68. Preacceleration foregrounds virtual movement.
69. The first machine for the experimentation with gases was built by Marey in 1899 and had twelve channels. The second one (1899–1900) had twenty-one channels, and the third (in 1901) had fifty-seven channels. The more channels, the more visible the trace of the object passing through the smoke.
70. In Deleuzian terms, these would actually be time-images since they make time felt, foregrounding movement’s durational force. See Deleuze 1989.
71. Deleuze uses the word agencement to evoke the relational aspects of collective in- dividuation. Agencement is translated as assemblage for lack of a better word. While assemblage does connote the co-constitutive aspects of agencement, it does not convey its force.
72. Abstract machines are singular, yet collective. They are immediately situated within the milieu that co-constitutes them. Deleuze and Guattari write: “Abstract machines op- erate within concrete assemblages: they are defined by the fourth aspect of assemblages, in other words, the cutting edges of decoding and deterritorialization. They draw these cutting edges. There they make the territorial assemblage open onto something else . . . . Abstract machines consist of unformed matters and nonformal functions. . . . Abstract,
238	Notes to Page 108