84. For an excellent discussion on concreteness and abstraction, see the introduction to Massumi 2002 entitled “Concrete Is as Concrete Doesn’t.”
85. Following most writing on Aboriginal art, I refer to the artists by their skin names rather than by their given names. These skin names are general appellations that refer to the complex kinship system in Aboriginal social organization. This system “determines how people relate to each other and their roles, responsibilities and obligations in rela- tion to one another, ceremonial business and land.” The “skin system [is] a method of subdividing the society into named categories which are related to one another through the kinship system” (http://www.clc.org.au/ourculture/kinship.asp).
86. Clifford Possum Tjapaltjarri, quoted in Johnson 2003, 16. Loosely translated, “To dream is never an individual affair.”
87. Jukurrpa was earlier referred to as “Dream Time.” It refers both to Dream (story) and to Law.
88. Many of these observations are also valid for other Aboriginal peoples. Rather than make wide claims about Aboriginals as a whole, however, my focus here is on the Ab- originals of the Central Desert and the ways in which their art practice continues to sustain the Dreaming.
89. Kirda “own” given countries and have primary economic and spiritual rights as regards these space-times. Kurdungurlu are guardians for the countries owned by the Kirda. Kurdungurlu ensure that Kirda fulfill social and ritual obligations associated with the Dreamings in their care. They also ensure that the Kirda maintain the responsibility of associated sites and access to economic resources of their country. In ceremony, Kirda and Kurdungurlu interact closely. Their roles are complimentary: when Kirda have their bodies painted for ritual purposes, Kurdungurlu grind the ochres, do the actual painting and give advice on appropriate symbols. The roles are reversed for other sites and Dream- ings (Anderson and Dussart 1988, 95).
90. All of Glowczewski’s work is originally in French. My translations throughout.
91. It can also happen that the birth of a child happens in a “no man’s land,” a zone that is not part of that clan’s Dreaming itineraries. In this case, the person will create his own clan in relation to the dream of conception associated with his passage from the virtual to the actual (Glowczewski 1989, 206).
92. For the Yolngu, a single word, marayin, designates at once painting, songs, dances, sacred objects, and power words (Glowczewski 2004, 311).
93. To consider the Dreaming as a finished narrative is to overlook the fact that for each Dreaming site there is the potential of emergence of other associated Dreamings. Dream- ings by definition are mobile, leaving traces that remain to be deciphered and performed. To perform is not an accessory of the Dreaming. It is the way the Dreaming affirms itself and is
Notes to Pages 161–167	241