119. In Nietzsche’s philosophy, ressentiment is used to describe the nostalgia for the past embodied by those Nietzsche calls “the last men.” Ressentiment is a living in the past that denies the present its force of creative renewal.
120. While a few of Napangardi’s paintings are black on white background, most of them are white on black. Nonetheless, it is often difficult to discern the black as background and to be certain that she didn’t paint them the other way around. There is always a sense, in her work, of the background moving forward.
121. Whitehead defines contrast: “Every realized contrast has a location, which is par- ticular with the particularity of actual entities. It is a particular complex matter of fact, realized, and, because of its reality, a standing condition in every subsequent actual world from which creative advance must originate” (1929/1978, 230).
122. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JnylM1hI2jc.
123. Lygia Clark is a Brazilian artist (1920–1988) associated with the Brazilian con- structivist movements of the mid-twentieth century. She is thought to be one of the first proponents of performative installation work, through which she developed many tech- niques and processes for interaction and participation. In her mid- to late career, Clark moves away from the museum to an exploration of the relation between art and society, developing a “therapeutic” approach to installation and performance work. It is in this period that she most clearly develops her work with relational objects. At this stage, she investigates primarily how objects can motivate new qualities of relationality, creating events in the making. She refers to this “therapeutic” work as “ritual without myth” and underscores the fact that her work has no representative meaning: its purpose is simply to motivate new forms of relation. Art for Clark becomes a living experience where artist and participant can no longer be separated.
Relational objects function at the threshold between art and world, not simply bring- ing art to world, but creating relational intervals through which worlds are invented anew. About Clark, Rolnik writes: “To know the world is to pay attention to its corporeal reverberation, to impregnate oneself with its silent forces, to mix with them, and from this fusion, to reinvent the world and oneself, to become other. Plane of knowledge or body and landscape take form et reform through an infinite conversation” (2005, 13; my translation). For a more detailed account of Clark as an artist and researcher, see Rolnik 2005.
124. As of mid-2008, In My Language has been viewed 632,130 times, has received 2.632 ratings (with a value of four and a half stars), has been made a favourite 2,664 times, and has received 1,549 comments. Comments include: “Thank you for your thought- ful and enlightening video. Your multilingual abilities combined with the reach of the internet offer a unique opportunity. May we all may continue to share in the benefits” (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JnylM1hI2jc).
Notes to Pages 223–228	245
125. The superject is in continuum with Simondon’s notion of individuation. Amanda Baggs would be the superject of In My Language. This means that in concrescing, the video proposes an individuation of Amanda Baggs. This instance of Baggs as super- ject does not promise a reiteration of the same Amanda Baggs in another instance. Her subjectile-position is particular to that specific concrescence. Identity-formation is al- ways specific to a given actual occasion in Whitehead, thus mobile across events.
126. See Blanchot 1992.