Collaborative relationality has been philosophically conceptualised, but also pragmatically imagined and produced, in many  different ways.  In The Fold, Deleuze develops a reading of Gottfried Leibniz’s philosophy of the soul (or monad) along the rhythmic line of a Baroque  concert  or choir. In the Leibnizian system, as well as in Baroque  music,  the different separate parts,  minds or monads, instruments or voices, are like little rooms  or centers  of order in the heart of chaos, at the same time establishing among themselves a sort of indirect harmonic contact  at a distance. From chaos to the beginnings of order in chaos, through the precarious solipsistic constructions of the monadic soul. Another significant but diametrically opposed  conceptual-compositional example is represented, according to Deleuze, by the ‘openness’ and  more direct relationality implicit  in Whitehead’s philosophy of prehension. As a non- communicational and  non-anthropomorphic affective  response, prehension constitutes the immanent ground of all perceptions and  thoughts: the stone prehends the water it falls into. The inter-subjective gap is still there,  but this
time it has been filled with  a sort of affective  resonance: prehensions (or feelings) are moments of unmediated opening and affective  connection to the world. Beyond  the solitude of the monadic soul, the multiple character of each soul and of each of its experiential occasions (perceptions, movements, thoughts) reveals itself as already composed of many  prehensions and, on its turn,  as converging into a collaborative nexus of prehensions allowing the creative emergence of the new. As Deleuze and Guattari remind us, it is not enough, for the purpose of creation, to establish a central  point  of balance  in the middle of chaos; it is necessary to draw a circle around that uncertain and fragile point,  and to organise a space (or a pace) of action. In other  words, a meta-stable structure has to be constructed by weaving a series of relations, lines of potential connection, between the soul (or self) and its outside. It is the basic principle of so-called
‘neo-Baroque’ dissonance and its more direct  play with  chaos: a prehensive
opening towards an infinity of sounds that provokes a series of unresolved accords,  generating an un-systematic polytonality or, “as Boulez will say, a
‘polyphony of polyphonies’ ” (Deleuze, 2006: 93).