source  of new inflections and  of new worlds, every  research activity  always implying in its rigorous methodologies an accentuated propensity towards the
‘new’. The challenging goal of research-creation is thus  identified by Thain with the playful and disquieting vertigo of minding and  then  travelling along  the dashed gap between the two terms.  Playful,  because every  research conceived as an attention for singularity requires an exploration of the creativity of the in- between and the ‘verge’; disquieting, because it requests us to expand and play with  that “moment of uncertainty and  potential,” to hold  to its unknown forces long enough for a non-exhaustive but precise form of expression to emerge. In order to accomplish this singular task and be able to sustain the force of emerging novelty, the in-between dash  as a marker of semantic delay  between the two moments of research-creation needs  to be differentially repeated, calling forth the addition of a further term and  a further conjunctive relation: research – creation – (as) collaboration: every  research is creation is collaboration (and  vice versa). Being already implied by the expanded gap between the activities and attitudes of research and  creation, the relational nature of collaboration appears as the differential element, the crucial condition for the taking place of compositional experimentations of all kinds.  Paraphrasing this argument through Alfred  North Whitehead’s philosophical vocabulary, we can define collaboration as the creation of a nexus, a ‘togetherness’ of occasions of experience, every actual  entity  being in its turn  the temporary singular
‘encapsulation’ of many  different and diverging potentials. Re-animating an
expression that not only moves  between the essays  in Inflexions n.1, but also constitutes a generative conceptual momentum for the works  presented here, we can understand collaboration through the words of Whitehead, as “the togetherness of the ‘many’ which  it finds, and (…) the disjunctive ‘many’ which
it leaves. The many  become  one, and are increased by one” (Whitehead quoted in
Thain, 2008: 2). Collaboration is that participation of elements, that co-working of conjuncted and disjuncted parts  that allows  the formation of doubled, or
multiple, visions  of the world; a pluralistic sensitivity for the myriad unnoticed events  that are always happening ‘within’, ‘without’ and  ‘with’ us.