Anique Vered, Érik Bordeleau, in collaboration with François Lemieux and Edith Brunette, and others: Screening of the film "Cuts Make the Country Better" by François Lemieux et Edith Brunette. The Art of Imposturing was the Movements of Thought series earlier this year here in Montreal. In order to consider alternate, or even invisible, activist methods, we explored: movements such as subversive affirmation (Eg. The Yes Men); concepts and methodologies such as speculative pragmatism, immanent critique (Manning and Massumi), depersonalising trust (Massumi), transindividualism and irony; as well as tactics including embodying certain codes to infiltrate political circles. "Cuts Make the Country Better" explores how in 2011, a right-wing coalition government announced drastic cuts in public funding for the arts in the Netherlands. Artists and cultural workers share their views on the effects of the cutbacks as well as on the strategies, both political and artistic, that took shape thereafter. The screening was followed by a discussion.
Disco Soupe, in collaboration with Cinema Out of the Box: an experimental evening inspired by the disco soup events. A Disco Soup with the live documentation and screening of it. The Disco Soup was born to fight the waste of food. You can learn more about this initiative here: http://discosoupe.org. The principle is simple: gather food which is going to be thrown away but still good from the market (Jarry park is at 7-10 min away from Jean-Talon market), cook while the music is playing and eat together. During the Disco Soup, participants were to take videos with your iphone or ipad to collect some memories of it. After a small editing on site, and at the darkness of evening a screening of all the videos was made. Followed by the screening of “Les glaneurs et la glaneuse” by Agnès Varda.
Flo Dacy: Australian artist, researcher, activist and resident at the SenseLab. Her presentation (as part of the Speaker Series at SenseLab), “Direct Action” evades predetermination at every step” wants to explore “a somewhat associative ride through political direct action’s fundamental indeterminacy, the affect of protest and the way these phenomena are sometimes made felt through contemporary artworks/practices.” 
Joel Mason and others: Duck Feet is a modular atmosphere for feeling the informal in its apposition to the fabulatory instruments of sex, love, politics, and race. The power of a script barreling its way through, the power of the musicians trying to hack it down, the power of the soirée and its natural sociality, the power of the attendees and the phrases they speak (with style) or do not speak (with style). In the FOFA Gallery courtyard from 5pm-7pm on Thursday, July 23rd.