In this respect, thirdly, no instance of mapping activity  is necessary in Whitehead. Only the absence  of any mapping activity  at all is inconceivable. His theory of iterative seriality breaks  the traditional link between the speculative notion of the self- explanatory on the one side, and, on the other  side, the notions of an independent and completely realized reality  with its own fully-furnished interior of possibilities. Moreover, the self-explanatory in Whitehead does not depend on an a priori  appeal to the principle that nothing is without a reason.  The functional theory of mapping activity indeed contains in itself all the reasons needed to explain why there is existence.  Yet each of its reasons are relational elements which  are in their own nature incomplete and partial. Only together, and by way of their descriptive adequacy to experience (1978: 4), do they render the fact of existence  self-explanatory. In other  words, Whitehead’s functional scheme  constitutes an ontology of necessary reasons strictly  in the sense that, granted the descriptive adequacy of the analysis, it shows no more  than  why, necessarily, something exists - and why  all concrete  ‘somethings’ are  contingent. The speculative theory of the function agrees  with empiricism and logical analysis on the primacy of the actual.  But it stands against them  in claiming that reasons can be discovered for the primacy of the actual  (1967a: 92). And it holds  that such reasons can never  be anything more than  necessary reasons, for the necessitarian view that everything has a sufficient reason is denied, and  the different kinds  of free activity involved in divine and finite mapping are among the reasons posited to explain the fact of actuality. In line with Whitehead’s characteristic method of appropriating empiricist and  analytic methods for the derivation of speculative results, metaphysical necessity becomes  in his hands wholly a matter of the range  and applicability of the speculative description of the function.