The  category of “research-creation” was implemented in the larger Canadian institutional setting without a strong concept of how creative practice and theoretical research interpenetrate. At what level  and in what modes of activity do they come together? In the absence of a rigorous rethinking of  that question, the new category could do little more than become an institutional operator: a mechanism for  existing practices to interface with the neoliberalization of art and academics. Key questions such as how the process of art alters what we might understand as research, or how art creates concepts, are backgrounded as institutionally driven issues take the fore, such as  by  what standards research-creation might be  accredited. The  drift is toward the professionalization of artistic activities, implying among other things the implementation of quantitative productivity measures. The  danger, we felt,  was that research-creation, once institutionalized in accordance with established criteria, would boil down to little more than grouping traditional disciplinary research methodologies under the same roof. This existing “interdisciplinary” tendency—where collaboration really means that disciplines continue to work in their own institutional corners much as  before, meeting only at the level  of  research results— would do  little to create new potential for  a thinking-with and -across techniques of creative practice. Instead of asking how research has  always been a modality of practice with its own creative edge, and how creative practice stages thought in innovative ways—how each already infuses the other—the instituted meeting between research and creation easily settles into a communication model revolving around the delivery of results among conventional research areas. For example, new sociological findings  on the impact of technological systems, or on newly developed and as yet  socially untested systems, might be made available to artists to see how they might creatively “apply” them (a potentially profitable exercise in such areas as gaming). We are of course not alone in exploring the reciprocity of research and creation toward a truly transdisciplinary exploration of new territories of practice. It is just that the counterexamples are numerous enough and prominent enough to produce a notable level  of skepticism, if not outright cynicism, in certain quarters.