By the end of Housing the Body, Dressing the Environment, it was already clear that we needed to come up with a different model for collective grouping. Otherwise we were  not going to be able  to welcome any new people: the interactive format of  the events had reached its  practical limit in terms of  the number of  participants.  There was  also  the problem of  the episodic, exceptional nature of the events. This  had initially been a strength. The first two events extracted participants from their embeddedness in the everyday of their local contexts, creating a vista for  acting and thinking otherwise. Now, however, this strength of the events began to feel  like  a limitation in some ways, as participants returned to their home environments without necessarily being able  to find ways  of following up on the momentum they might have found through the event. Collaborations did spin off in a number of cases. But as long as the problem of how to propagate  the techniques of research-creative relation that had been collectively invented through the events was  not addressed, the collaborations were left exposed in contexts sometimes hostile to their carrying-forward.29 The limitative political-economic, intellectual, and institutional constraints that produced the need to seek engagement elsewhere in the first place threatened to clamp back down as soon as participants returned to their home turf. Added to that was the issue of travel costs to Montreal, both in terms of its stress on personal finances and on the environment. It was clearly time to experiment further. How could the collectively produced techniques for  transformative ethics of  engagement be  disseminated outward, into participants’ respective home environments, in ways singularly self-adapted to each habitat? How could the process we were  collectively creating also open itself to nonacademics or nonprofessionals who did  not have access to travel funding? How could this dissemination be effectively spread to groups that had not been involved in prior SenseLab events?