the first  person to use  the term to help understand some of the problems encountered by people with autism and Asperger syndrome. See Baron-Cohen (1997).
4.   See Ralph Savarese (2007) on the concept of “aroundness” in autism, particularly in regard to the poetry of Tito  Mukhopadhyay in his  forthcoming A Dispute with  Nouns, or Adventures in Radical Relationality: Autism, Poetry, and the Sensing Body.
5.   The concept of the dance of attention is developed in Manning’s “The Dance of Attention” (2013, 143–48).
6.   We  return to the role of  colored shadows in our fourth chapter (“No
Title  Yet”).
7.   The  concept of “taking account” is from Whitehead. It is one of the concepts through which he extends a perceptual mode of  operation (“prehension”) to all  things, independent of human perception. The  notion of “taking account” indicates that things (of  whatever nature—he mentions “mud” and “evil”) “are essentially referent beyond themselves.” By “referent” he means co-implicated a process of mutual becoming exemplifying “forms of process,” understood as modes of existence that call  upon each other “essentially,” as an expression of their own nature. Each kind of thing must be conceived as a form of process. The  “realm of forms,” Whitehead  writes, is not an empty realm of  pure abstraction, devoid of dirt and passage. It “is the realm of potentiality, and the very  notion of ‘potentiality’ has  an external meaning. It refers to life and motion. It refers to inclusion and exclusion. . . . Phrasing this statement more generally—it refers to appetition. It refers to the development of actuality, which realizes form and is yet  more than form. . . . To be  real  is not to be  self-sustaining. . . . Modes of reality require each other . . . [they] express their mutual relevance to each other . . . each type expressing some mode of composition” (Whitehead 1968, 69–70). When we refer to the flower striving to be taken account of (or, later in this essay, the pen “asking” to be chosen from the field), we are referring to Whitehead’s theory of the “essential reference” of each thing to others beyond themselves, as exhibiting an activity of appetition that is in and of things (defined in terms of processual potential). This  “striving” for expression of things as such is in no way  meant to be taken as a metaphor. Although this striving is independent of human perception, it is soliciting of human perception wherever human perception is active in the field. What distinguishes this approach from recent “object-oriented” approaches is that it gives  primacy to “activity” and “potential,” deriving the status of  the “object” from a playing out of  the “forms of process” through which they tend toward determinate expression. The  object, for Whitehead, marks a phase-shift in process. It is understood more as an ontogenetic role than as an ontological category. For Whitehead, “object” refers to a particular role  in the coming to determinate expression of  potential, occurring at a