himself focuses on the mode of presentational immediacy in its purest form, where it is separated out from causal efficacy to the greatest degree. This occurs when qualities of objects appear as abstractable from them (as “sense-data”). The differences are of emphasis in the moment’s mode of composition or, in Whiteheadian terms, how the moment asserts “importance” as it strives to be taken account of. The quotes are from Whitehead (1927, 42–44).
13.   “Entertainment” references Whitehead’s “presentational immediacy,” the “vivid enjoyment” of immediate sense experience, as we interpret this category (see note 12).
14.   This  is what we term “superposition” in a formative “zone of indistinction” in the third chapter (“Just Like That”). In that chapter, the emphasis is different. It is on the incommensurability between the modes entering into superposition: on how each composes its own order, after its own manner, co-composing with others precisely in its difference from them. We convey this difference in co-composing with the term “disjunctive synthesis.” In the third chapter, the notion is developed that this superposition of modes occurs in an immeasurable interval of co-motional “suspense.” This interval is a pulse in the rhythm of emergent process. From it, the modes reemerge into their own operations and order in a next pulse. The  third chapter is concerned with the modes of language and movement as such. All modes are emergent. A new mode emerges when a co-composing between existing modes gains a consistency that constitutes a new order. The new order becomes self-propelling. Following its own tendencies, it becomes incommensurable to the modes from which it took off. The “modes of existence” discussed in this chapter are emergences of this kind. Their number is indefinite. The political stakes of the essay are that a new mode can co-compose between neurotypicals and autistics (and other non-neurotypical communities) that respects the diversifying ecology of modes of existence beyond pathologization and exclusion.
15.   Autistics emphasize, in their very  approach to life, how the world dances to attention as a field experience full of potential blooms, including outcomes deemed neurotypical. It bears repeating that the autistics we  are  thinking with here—Tito Mukhopadhyay, DJ Savarese, Amanda Baggs,  Jim  Sinclair, Larry  Bissonnette, Sue Rubin, and Jamie Burke—are “classically” autistic, which means that they suffer from complex motor problems, including the inability to speak, and serious issues with the activation or initiation of tasks, anxiety, echolalia, and so on. They can rarely live completely without assistance. And yet their writing astounds in its complexity, in its rhythm and tonal qualities, in its political astuteness. Ralph Savarese, poet and father of DJ Savarese, notes, “While acknowledging the many challenges that accompany the condition, proponents of neurodiversity insist that autism should not be