pathologized and ‘corrected’ but, rather, celebrated as a kind of natural, human difference. The  condition affords, especially at the so-called ‘low-functioning’ end of the spectrum, with those who have been taught to read and to communicate, a range of gifts. One of these gifts  is poetic perception and writing. For decades it has  been assumed that Autistics are  the victims of an obdurate literality, which leaves them baffled by figurative language. While this may be the case  with ‘high-functioning’ Autistics or those with Asperger syndrome, it is not with classical Autistics, who have begun to demonstrate extraordinary competence. [. . .] Only recently have some of these Autistics been exposed to creative writing instruction, and the results have been nothing short of spectacular” (2010). See also  Savarese 2008. For work by autistics mentioned here as well  as others in the Disability Studies community, see the special issue on autism in Disability Studies  Quarterly  30, no. 1 (2010).
16.   The problem of reflective consciousness is directly connected, for autistics, to the disconnect between voluntary and automatic movement—a disconnect associated with the difficulty they experience with the activation of a task. Amanda Baggs writes, “I have known for a long time that my  relationship to voluntary movement is not the same as my  relationship to automatic movements, that there is in fact quite a large difference between the two, and that I process automatic movements as ‘background’ but don’t process voluntary movements that way. And  that most movements for me  are  not automatic, but require finding the body part and making  it move around for me  in a fairly laborious way” (2010b).
17.   For a thought-provoking interview on being on the spectrum (from which the quote in the text is drawn), see Corwin (2008).
18.   For more on phenomenology in contrast to process philosophy, see “Wondering the World Directly,” Manning (forthcoming a).
19.   Our use in this section of “physical pole” and “perceptual pole” should not be  confused with Whitehead’s distinction between the “physical” and “mental” poles, to which he gives  a particular meaning free  of the cognitive presuppositions involved in the physical/percept distinction as it functions on the derivative level of reflective consciousness.
20.   For a critique of neural correlates and a theory of brain function compatible with process philosophy as we understand it, see Ruyer (1950).
21.   For Henri Bergson, consciousness arises when automatic action-reaction circuits are interrupted. The mechanism of consciousness is to inhibit or slow down automaticity. The  interruptive gap  between action and reaction is filled with tendencies (germinal “forms of process,” as in note 10) vying for actualization. It is their vying that we experience as “our” thinking. This germinal activity of forms of process striving  for expression brinks into consciousness, but in its first  stirrings, in the fullness