part, we reserve the term “motional-relational” for  movement in its own order, as it co-composes disjunctively-synthetically with the “notional-relational” order of language, emphasizing how both orders, in their co-composing, overspill the sensorimotor (and even Sheets-Johnstone’s far more adequate “sensori-kinetic”), into the suspension of nonsensuous perception.
15.   Whitehead develops the concept of the mental and the physical as two modally  distinct yet  inseparably bound “poles” of every occasion of experience (Whitehead 1978, 239, 248–49 and passim).
16.   For an extended analysis of cueing and aligning in the work of Forsythe, see “Choreography as Mobile Architecture,” Manning (2013, 99–123). On cueing more generally, see Massumi (forthcoming).
17.   Forsythe has  developed a unique approach to accessing proprioception for his  choreographic process. He  teaches his  dancers to use  their skin surface as an organ of proprioception more than of touch. The  stretching of the skin registers the spray of the movement forming the differential gestural nexus. The dancers are asked to activate their bodies through their skin, making the skin what Deleuze would call the “surface of recording” or “abstract surface” of whole-body events of thinkingfeeling. “Put the activation into every part. Think about where the movement starts and stops. If you raise your arm, where does your skin stretch? (Down the side). Activate the skin. . . . Get  feedback from the skin. Go  further if it tells  you something. What you feel  is what you know. Look  for  the chain of sensations rather than the chain of positions” (Forsythe 2011, Nov. 10).
18.   See Forsythe (2013).
19.   There are  other resets besides touch. The  many-times-repeated PAAF! is a vocal reset that operates on the cusp of language, where speaking, sounding, and gesture coincide. The Dalai Lama’s mirror is another rest. In Woolf Phrase, the mirror plays a deviant role. It actually blocks vision from self-reflection, infusing otherness into identity.