There is no doubt that autistics’ brains are  “wired” differently. There is the possibility that this difference may be  “cured.” Our point is that while the neuro has  therapeutic value, it only has  explanatory value to the extent to which the composing of experience can be  reduced to its physical pole. In other words, in the expanded context of the whole-field approach proposed here, it has  limited explanatory value. In the moment, the immediate field of experience is self-explaining in the way it complexly plays out, composing a self-expressive outcome for  itself. From moment to moment, experience explains itself in the variations on its  expressive outcomes. Its  self-explaining always starts from qualitative field-effects, like colored shadow. Its outcomes always have an overall qualitative color, or affective tonality. The  field  of experience is best described as relationalqualitative, not physical or perceptual, or some correlated combination of these. The  question of “curing” modes of existence such as autism must be situated on this relational-qualitative ground. It is not just a therapeutic question. It is a question of the diversity of modes of existence, and of the modes of thought they enact, and of the varieties of expressive outcomes they compose, and of the differing determinations of experience those outcomes instantiate in the world. The question of curing is not as direct as it might seem. It is in fact  an ecological question concerning how diversities co-inhabit the same field of becoming-human and co-compose. Perhaps the field can be cured—of the neurotypical devaluing of autistic experience. DJ  Savarese, writing in the crushingly overmedicalized United States, polemically makes this point in terms of “freedom,” playing the conventional political rhetoric of his country of birth against its tendency toward therapeutic overkill: The  great United States of America is breathtakingly not free. Equality is not as sacred because not everyone has  access to it. Freedom is not as available as many people think. First,  free people treat my people, very smart people who type to communicate, as mindless. Second, they underestimate us as very  bad instead of reaching out to us.  The  creators of everyone’s very important Declaration of  Independence wasted their breath. (Ralph Savarese 2007, 417)