in  a  ritual   called  Circling   the  Mountain. The  film  follows   the  last  5 days  of Daiajari  Tanno  Kakudo, the  monk  to complete the  grueling ritual  of running a thousand marathons over  the  course  of 7 years.  This  is the  equivalent to a bit more  than  the circumference of the earth.  He spends this time in solitude, aiming to live every  day as if it were  his last. He sprains muscles constantly, suffers  from agonizing back pains,  and  has regular bouts  of diarrhea. If he gives up along  the way  custom says  he  must  commit suicide.  If he  succeeds he  becomes  a living buddha. Along  the way  he endures several  nine-day fasts, with  the intention of bringing the body  as close as possible to death. The idea  is to exhaust the mind, the body,  everything, until  nothing is left. This nothing may  be filled again  with the  vast  consciousness that  lies below  the  surface  of our  lives.  While  the  monk fasts   he   undergoes  a  metamorphosis  of  becoming  almost-dead.  As  Tanno Kakudo emerges on  the  last  day  of the  fast,  assisted by two  monks, I bury  my face  in  my  hands. The  bones  around his  temples show,  as it does  with  dying people.  Here,   the   narrator  explains, his  sensory  awareness  comes   crashing through, and  he can hear the ash fall from an incense  stick. I already know  of the tricks  death plays   on  perception. In  a  final  conversation  with   a  relative she conveyed  how   a  grey   hospice  wall   had   turned  into   a  vivid   and   saturated landscape of colors only visible to her, the dying. By the end of his run  the monk knows every  leaf, every  bird  song  and  seasonal change along  their  route  around the   mountain.  During  this   ritual   the   body   of  the   monk   extends  into   the mountain. He  seeks  out  all there  is to know  about  the  processes of being  him. Through repetition he  re-orders everything within himself:  It is an  exercise  of experimenting with  all possible combinations, of walking around a mountain, of grappling with the soft ever-shifting tension between body  and surround.