This  form  of materialism, which  thinks  the  planet as a surface  to  be  mined, a spacecraft  to   continuously   reconfigure,  and   which    no   longer    knows  any exteriority, is fundamentally different not only from shamanic ontologies, whether they   be  of  Northern  or   Southern  Amerindian  or   of  Australian  Aboriginal provenance,  but   also  from   ontologies  that   have   been   reconfigured  by  both Indigenous peoples and activists,  as well as all those who try to experience the fact that  we can be inhabited or traversed by exteriorities. These kinds  of ontological exteriorities arise  from  other  types  of materiality which  assume that  spirit  is not just interior to a body  but  multiplied across  visible  or invisible  spaces.  To accept these kinds  of transversalities is the condition of a convivial relation not only with the Earth  but any milieu  inhabited by humans, those  “from  here”  and  those  who come  from  “elsewhere,” be they  migrants and  asylum seekers  or spirits.  To be inhabited  or   traversed  by   exteriorities  does   not   speak    to   some   kind    of transcendence. On the contrary, it means  to recognize immanence within oneself. For Australian Aboriginals, this immanence of exteriority is lived in the way every birth  of a human is related to the incarnation of a spirit  of the Earth;  throughout their entire lives, Aboriginal men and women actualize in themselves other  spirits that  are  shared with  different totems, or Dreamings, jukurpa as the  Walpiri and their  desert neighbours say. In other  words, totemism does not here resolve  itself in a continuity of resemblance between an individual and  an animal—“I am like this  snake  which  is at ease everywhere it goes, which  can live both  in the water and  on firm ground … like the snake  I avoid  confrontations.…” (Jowandi Wayne Barker: personal communication). Instead of a unique and essentialized attribute, each person is an assemblage of several  contextualized analogies, of relations that change throughout the  course  of life, with  a singular constellation of totems or Dreamings. A given animal or plant,  the rain, the wind  or fire are lived as multiple virtualities in a process  of becoming that  is context  dependent, in humans as well as nonhumans, and terrestrial and extraterrestrial sites considered as a partial materialization of a trace, an emanation or an organ  of a given totem.  That is why