fiction tradition where science and  its technological fantasies are the main  motor of dramatic intrigue. Quentin Meillassoux opposes this  literary tradition, in the name  of a certain  speculative realism, to what  he calls a science  fiction  “outside science,”  as the only path  to imagine other  worlds (Meillassoux 2015). In its own way, this notion of science fiction “outside science” refuses the accelerationist logic of  the  sciences   and   echoes   what   Isabelle   Stengers  calls  “slow   science.”   She elaborates the  idea  through the  polysemic notion  of  “SF,”  which   for  Donna Haraway can  be  equally read  as  “science  fiction,”  “scientific   fact,”  or  “string figures” (in reference to the figures  made  during string  games)  (Haraway 2013 et
2015). Stengers explains that the correlations at work in “slow” scientific reasoning correspond to  the  necessary correlations for  passing from  one  string  figure  to another, a passage which  always implies a relation, as the input of one person’s hands changes the  string  figure  held  by  the  other.  The  process  implied in  the transformations of these  figures  is an image  (but  not a metaphor) for expressing what   Stengers calls  speculative gestures that  can  “slowly and  softly”  change reality  (Stengers 2015). I accept  her  invitation to  think  how  the  “slow” social sciences  could  create  the  conditions to promote string  figures  as well  as science fiction. “The plea of Whitehead regarding the task of universities thus  also aimed at a ‘slowing down’ of science, which  is the necessary condition for thinking with abstractions and  not  obeying to abstractions.… I would then  characterize slow science as the demanding operation which  would reclaim  the art of dealing with, and  learning from, what  scientists too often consider messy,  that  is, what  escapes general, so called objective, categories” (Stengers 2011 : 6-7 et 10). A science fiction “outside science”  joins in its own way the “slowing down” of science: at the level of anthropology it offers one way  to break  out of causal  and  exclusive reasoning that  traps  us in the sciences,  exhausting our power to imagine other  worlds, and other  ontologies for living on this Earth.