Australian  Aboriginal  filmmaker  Ryan   Griffen,   whose    title   references  the Australian medicine men  (see Burke  2016 and  Griffen  2016). The  series  stars  a young Aboriginal man  as its hero  who  inherits a superpower allowing him—in spite of his initial rejection of it—to intervene in an Australia where strange beings from  another dimension, called  “the  hairy   people,” are  sequestered behind a security wall or locked in prison. These characters hark back to ancestral monsters from the Dreaming that are present in the mythology of several  Aboriginal groups in Australia. But the series chooses  to incarnate them  in the role of a “prehuman” minority that  has been  given  the right  to live amongst humans. In the series, the acceptance of the Hairy  men and  women (monsters who scared  Aboriginals long before  they  appeared in the science-fiction series)  stands in for an acceptance of Australia’s diverse peoples: Aboriginals, whites, and  the waves  of other  migrants from the Pacific, Asia or Africa, as much  as the refugees and  asylum seekers.  The Hairy   people are  “monsters” and  their  traits  resemble the  Neanderthals, the ancestors of man.  [6] The fantastical cinema  of superheros has garnered extreme popularity the  world over,  particularly amongst youth who  “recognize themselves” in it, not just as if they share  in a popular culture but more  as if they themselves participate in  the  refounding of  a veritable mythology. It  is not  a question of  creating a  monolithic culture,  but  of  valourizing  possibilities for human and  nonhuman diversity where different spaces  and  times  intermix. We cannot underestimate the subjectifying force of these  stories  since  they  circulate across the world. The truth of their impact cannot be evaluated by separating their form  (films,  video   games,   costumes and  accessories) from  their  content, and pretending to define  this  content as the  basis  for the  ontology of a society  or a religion.  The popularity of superheros and  other  human-nonhuman hybrids (demons, zombies, vampires, werewolves, humanoid robots or clones, aliens, etc.) must  be understood beyond their  symbolic efficacy  or  the  autheniticty of their foundation. Something asignifying about  them,  in the Guattarian sense,  puts intensities and collective assemblages of enunciation into play that act and traverse subjectivities, creating a complicity, a shared world that  could  elicit a new  mode of collective existence.  An activist mockumentary shot in black and white featured an Aboriginal man in a superman costume named Superboong—a reappropriated