The rise of logistics is rapid. Indeed, to read today in the field of logis- tics is to read a booming field, a conquering field. In military science and in engineering of course, but also in business studies, in manage- ment research, logistics is everywhere. And beyond these classic capi- talist sciences, its ascent is echoed ahistorically in the emerging fields of object-oriented philosophy and cognitive neuroscience, where the logistical conditions of knowledge production go unnoticed, but not the effects. In military science the world has been turned upside down. Traditionally strategy led and logistics followed. Battle plans dictated supply lines. No more. Strategy, traditional ally and partner of logisitics, is today increasingly reduced to collateral damage in the drive of logistics for dominance. In war without end, war without bat- tles, only the ability to keep fighting, only logistics, matters. (88)
Now, human capital is the automatic subject’s substitute, carrying out its engagement with the skills of daily financialisation and logistics, both of which act on it as if it were an impediment to movement and not a vehicle in motion. Human capital, in other words, departs from the strategic subject of neoliberalism, generalizing through self- infliction the departure that subject ritually imposes upon its exiled interiors and making of itself a porous object that still talks like a sub- ject, as if in some burlesque enactment of philosophy’s dream of the ultimate reconciliation. It is for this reason that human capital can- not be strategized, or indeed managed, in any traditional sense, and therefore in turn we can see the hollowing out of the field of business strategy, including the decline of the MBA degree, and the rise of ‘leadership studies.’ (90)
For logistics, the subject of whatever, as Michael Hardt calls it, must yield to the object of whatever. Logistical populations will be created to do without thinking, to feel without emotion, to move without friction, to adapt without question, to translate with- out pause, to connect without interruption, or they will be dismantled and disabled as bodies in the same way they are assembled, by what Patricia Clough calls population racism. From here, logistics is master of all that it surveys. (91)
But what might look like smooth sailing, flat waters, flat being, is not so undisturbed. Uncertainty surrounds the holding of things and in a manner that Luciana Parisi describes, in which the algorithm gen- erates it own critique, logistics discovers too late that the sea has no back door. (91)
Where did logistics get this ambition to connect bodies, objects, af- fects, information, without subjects, without the formality of subjects, as if it could reign sovereign over the informal, the concrete and gen- erative indeterminacy of material life? The truth is, modern logistics was born that way. Or more precisely it was born in resistance to, giv- en as the acquisition of, this ambition, this desire and this practice of the informal. Modern logistics is founded with the first great move- ment of commodities, the ones that could speak. It was founded in the Atlantic slave trade, founded against the Atlantic slave. Breaking from the plundering accumulation of armies to the primitive accumu- lation of capital, modern logistics was marked, branded, seared with the transportation of the commodity labor that was not, and ever af- ter would not be, no matter who was in that hold or containerized in that ship. From the motley crew who followed in the red wakes of these slave ships, to the prisoners shipped to the settler colonies, to the mass migrations of industrialisation in the Americas, to the in- dentured slaves from India, China, and Java, to the trucks and boats leading north across the Mediterranean or the Rio Grande, to one- way tickets from the Philippines to the Gulf States or Bangladesh to Singapore, logistics was always the transport of slavery, not ‘free’ labor. Logistics remains, as ever, the transport of objects that is held in the movement of things. And the transport of things remains, as ever, lo- gistics’ unrealizable ambition. (92)
Logistics could not contain what it had relegated to the hold. It cannot. (92)
If the proletariat was lo- cated at a point in the circuits of capital, a point in the production process from which it had a peculiar view of capitalist totality, what of those who were located at every point, which is to say at no point, in the production process? What of those who were not just labor but commodity, not just in production but in circulation, not just in cir- culation but in distribution as property, not just property but property that reproduced and realized itself ? The standpoint of no standpoint, everywhere and nowhere, of never and to come, of thing and nothing. (93)
Modernity is sutured by this hold.This movement of things,unformed objects, deformed subjects, nothing yet and already. This movement of nothing is not just the origin of modern logistics, but the annuncia- tion of modernity itself, and not just the annunciation of modernity itself but the insurgent prophesy that all of modernity will have at its heart, in its own hold, this movement of things, this interdicted, outlawed social life of nothing. (93)
Brett Neilson on borders for instance reminds us that the prolifera- tion of borders between states, within states, between people, within people is a proliferation of states of statelessness. These borders grope their way toward the movement of things, bang on containers, kick at hostels, harass camps, shout after fugitives, seeking all the time to harness this movement of things, this logisticality. But this fails to happen, borders fail to cohere, because the movement of things will not cohere. This logisticality will not cohere. (94
But this is to say that there are flights of fantasy in the hold of the ship. The ordinary fugue and fugitive run of the language lab, black phonography’s brutally experimental venue. Paraontological totality is in the making. Present and unmade in presence, blackness is an in- strument in the making. (94)
And so it is we remain in the hold, in the break, as if entering again and again the broken world, to trace the visionary company and join it. (94)
Blackness is the site where absolute nothingness and the world of things converge. Blackness is fantasy in the hold and Wilderson’s access to it is in that he is one who has nothing and is, therefore, both more and less than one. He is the shipped. We are the shipped, if we choose to be, if we elect to pay an unbearable cost that is inseparable from an incalculable benefit. (95)
Can this being together in homelessness, this interplay of the refusal of what has been refused, this undercommon appositionality, be a place from which emerges neither self-consciousness nor knowledge of the other but an improv- isation that proceeds from somewhere on the other side of an un- asked question? Not simply to be among his own; but to be among his own in dispossession, to be among the ones who cannot own, the ones who have nothing and who, in having nothing, have everything. This is the sound of an unasked question. (96)
To have been shipped is to have been moved by others, with others. It is to feel at home with the homeless, at ease with the fugitive, at peace with the pursued, at rest with the ones who consent not to be one. Outlawed, interdicted, intimate things of the hold, containerized contagion, logistics externalises log- ic itself to reach you, but this is not enough to get at the social logics, the social poesis, running through logisticality. (97)
But in the hold, in the undercommons of a new feel, another kind of feeling became common. This form of feeling was not collective, not given to decision, not adhering or reattaching to settlement, nation, state, ter- ritory or historical story; nor was it repossessed by the group, which could not now feel as one, reunified in time and space. No, when Black Shadow sings “are you feelin’ the feelin?’’ he is asking about something else. He is asking about a way of feeling through others, a feel for feeling others feeling you. This is modernity’s insurgent feel, its inherited caress, its skin talk, tongue touch, breath speech, hand laugh. This is the feel that no individual can stand, and no state abide. This is the feel we might call hapticality. (98)
Hapticality, the capacity to feel though others, for others to feel through you, for you to feel them feeling you, this feel of the shipped is not regulated, at least not successfully, by a state, a religion, a people, an empire, a piece of land, a totem. Or perhaps we could say these are now recomposed in the wake of the shipped. To feel others is unmediated, immediately social, amongst us, our thing, and even when we recompose religion, it comes from us, and even when we recompose race, we do it as race women and men. Refused these things, we first refuse them, in the contained, amongst the contained, lying together in the ship, the boxcar, the prison, the hostel. Skin, against epidermalisation, senses touching. Thrown together touching each other we were denied all sentiment, denied all the things that were supposed to produce senti- ment, family, nation, language, religion, place, home. Though forced to touch and be touched, to sense and be sensed in that space of no space, though refused sentiment, history and home, we feel (for) each other. (98)