media events  such  as the  coverage of the  9/11 attacks,  but  I wonder about  the model of bi-directional and  successful communication that  phone implies, and the dimming of attention to surroundings as well.  Instead, I’d like to think  about that   ubiquitous  mobile   media  device,   the  portable  headphone,  and   what   it suggests for  a  transversal cinema   that  replaces a  strictly   immersive ideal   of perceptual experience with  one  that  makes  felt  the  affective  gap  of emergent alterfication.   In  relation to  cinema,   the  headphone is  interesting for  several reasons. It can reconfigure the perceptual, especially the visual  field, by sparking an awareness of, as Simondon might  describe this,  the  “background as harbour of dynamisms”; it “de-syncs” sound from image,  a cinematic legacy.  It makes  us reimagine clichés  of cinematic movement outside of the  terms  of a sampling of the real and  allows  this creative gap  to occur  elsewhere (1980, 53).  The selective punch of  the  filmstrip and  the  blink  of  the  shutter as  equivalent of  the  eye demand a different model of the differential gap  when confronted with  the  fact that  as  Murray Scheffer  has  said,  there  are  no  earlids (2003, 25).   As a mobile
écouteur,  how   else  could   we   reimagine  the   “inward  directed”  soundscape Cubbitt describes, to account less for a paranoid fantasy of corporeal threat and instead  for  the  joyous   mutations  of  felt  becoming?    Cubitt’s  description  is adequate to  certain  institutionalized  cinematic clichés  of headphone listening-- the murder victim  whose  pop  soundtrack makes  her  oblivious to an impending threat, the use of pop  music  and  lyrics to represent a character’s emotional state by   blurring  the   line   between  diegetic  and   non-diegetic  sound,  but   other modalities of  headphone  experience exist  which  suggest a  fluctuating convergence  between  headphones  and   cinema   around  questions  of  virtual mobility and  a distracted sensorium.  Of particular relevance for  any  study of medium is the distributed nature of the  cinematic medium itself, where certain elements (the camera, for instance) are frequently privileged synecdoches for the whole.   Headphones are both  an integral part  of that  medium, essential elements of  production that  speak   to  the  “untrained” or  non-selective  “ear”   of  sound recording devices,  and  also tangential to the  cinematic medium, the  immersive world of sound they  offer at odds  with  the supporting role sound often  plays  in popular and academic understandings of the audio-visuality of cinema.