medium’ –, the question of how to museumize cinema  is increasingly important. And indeed, the task of curating a 24-hour  film screening challenges the National Gallery’s  formal   setup  and   unmoors  it  from   its  temporal  territory.  Besides obvious spatial contrasts between, for instance, the  museum’s “white box”  and the  movie  theater’s “black  box,”  the  tensions between the  two  environments concern  various aspects of their  respective media ecologies.  How  to, for instance, negotiate the stark  divide in food policies?  While movie-theaters allow and invite (surely   for  economic reasons) the  consumption of  food,  the  National Gallery insisted on its “No  Food  and  Drink” policy. [8] So unless  you  have  incidentally been  fasting  anyway, you are bound to notice  that  museums and  movie  theaters relate   to  human bodies   in  quite   different  ways.   Now   take  into  account  the available seating options (or lack  thereof)  and  you’re  tempted to conclude that museums  are   quite   simply  uncomfortable  spaces.   When   asked   about   the curatorial concept  for The Clock’s space,  an employee of the museum informs me that,  as a stand-alone video  piece, The Clock does  not require a curatorial process. The body  begs to differ. What  The Clock’s concurrent remix  of institutional forms foregrounds is in fact the form-taking of institutions themselves. Marclay’s piece brings  into visceral  sensation that  institutions are not static organizational frameworks  (despite  their   claim  to  the  contrary)  and   that   media  cannot   be reduced to mediating content (not even  popular narrative film). In The Clock, so- called  “new  media” do  not  supplant or appropriate ‘film’; they  reactivate it by remixing films, performing the qualitative change in what  cinema  can be when it is inclusive of varying material supports. [9] In the case of The Clock, a museum cannot   incorporate  new   media  forms   without  experimenting  with   what   a museum is or how it does what  it does.