“Even of the plant”: Bergson, in keeping with his logic of differential mutual inclusion, describes an interlacing of tendencies such that the plant participates in animality and vice versa: Let us say that no definite characteristic distinguishes the plant from the animal. Attempts to define the two kingdoms strictly have always come to naught. There is not a single property of vegetable life that is not found, in some degree, in certain animals; not a single characteristic feature of the animal that has not been seen in certain species or at certain moments in the vegetable world. Naturally, therefore, biologists enamored of clean-cut concepts have regarded the distinction between the two kingdoms as artificial. They would be right, if definition in this case must be made, as in the mathematical and physical sciences, according to certain statical attributes which belong to the object defined and are not found in any other. Very different, in our opinion, is the kind of definition which befits the sciences of life. There is no manifestation of life which does not contain, in a rudimentary state—either latent or potential—the essential characters [differences in kind] of most other manifestations. The difference is in the proportions [difference of degree]. But this very difference of proportion will suffice to define the group, if we can establish that it is not accidental, and that the group as it evolves, tends more and more to emphasize these particular characters. In a word, the group must not be defined by the possession of certain characters [following a substance-predicate logic], but by its tendency to emphasize them [tendential differentiation setting difference in kind and degree together in self-transforming movement]. From this point of view, taking tendencies rather than states [or substances] into account, we find that vegetables and animals may be precisely defined and distinguished, and that they correspond to two divergent developments of life. (Bergson 1998, 105–106)