The compositional principle is more on the level of the animal’s style of movement, as it in-forms all of its behaviors. What is expressed is the vitality-affect signature of that animal, the -esqueness of its actions arcing through all its movements, the manner in which the animal continuously performs something extra to the functions of its behaviors. This performative excess over generic function is what defines the animal’s singularity. It is the manner in which the animal surpasses itself, overspilling its species being in a way that places it on a supernormal continuum with other species, in its own singular way. There is a cockroachity of the cockroach, a mousiness of the mouse, and it is these form-of-life signature styles that get in on the act of writing. The style of the writing composes itself around this -esqueness of the analog animal, taking up its species overspill into creative language. The writing of Gregor is the invention of the extra-roach, a writerly produced surplus-value of cockroachity. Pure, roachity extra-being (Deleuze 1990, 7, 123, 221). The specifically written uptake of this extra-being creatively extends the continuum of integral animality under enactment to include the human—the only animal whose bundles of affective capacities include literary writing. It is the animal continuum that is integrally put into written play, in the register of cockroach. Gregor is the integral animal, written in roach.
-Esqueness was already an element of pure expression in nonhuman animal gesture. Writing extends the -esqueness to integral animality, taking pure expression to the limit. When writing gives pure expression to integral animality, it is not denoting “the” animal. Gregor is not about “the” roach. It is not about denoting anything in general. It is about producing something singular. Not “the”: a. A cockroach, a dog, an ape, a mouse, each evoking in expressive individuality the power of the animal continuum—singularly exemplary animals enveloping in their movements, and in the moving of their movements to the affective limit of animality, an indefinite multiplicity of differential modes of potential existence.