1. As Jane Bennett argues, “anthropomorphizing has its virtues” (Bennett 2010, 25; see also pages 98–100). Bennett usefully decouples anthropomorphism from anthropocentrism.
2. For classic challenges to neo-Darwinian fundamentalism on the issues of natural selection and adaptation, see Gould (1980), Lewontin, Rose, and Kamin (1984), Wesson (1991), Goodwin (1995), and of course, before the fact, Bergson (1998). Recent confirmation of biological mechanisms for the inheritance of acquired traits (epigenetic inheritance) has further weakened the neo-Darwinian model’s reductive claim to completeness. For a review of research in the fast-developing field of epigenetic inheritance, see Jablonka and Raz (2009). See also Carey (2012).
3. There are other reasons why sexual selection is not privileged here. Taking sexual selection as the starting point focuses on competition and rivalry between individuals (Grosz 2011, pt. 3, ch. 8). This puts the drive toward qualitative excess in the perceptual experience of the individual subject of desire and weighs down the concept of desire with fundamental connotations of self-interest. It also tends to construe the aesthetic affirmation of the qualitative in animal life as counter
to instinct (“The artistic is a leap out of materiality, the kick of virtuality now put into and extracted from matter to make it function unpredictably. . . . Art is the process of making sensation live, of giving autonomous life to expressive quality and material forms”; Grosz 2008, 75, 103). This implies that below the evolutionary threshold at which sexual selection operates, sensation does not live, and animals are inexpressive and prisoner to their material forms. This can be interpreted as an implicit acceptance of the traditional mechanistic account of “dumb,” law-abiding matter devoid of surprises, and the related idea of instinct as mechanistic reflex action. It suggests that only a leap out of nature into culture, articulated in terms reminiscent of the Freudian concept of sublimation, can save the animal from the mechanism of dumb matter (“art hijacks survival impulses and transforms them through the vagaries and intensifications posed by sexuality”; 2008, 11). Finally,  the definition of sexuality mobilized (“the alignment of bodies with other bodies and parts of one’s own body”; 2008, 64–65) appears to assume a preconstituted body, in much the same way that the idea of competition assumes a preconstituted subject. It further appears to assume that the relations of bodies to each other and