to themselves can be understood in the same terms as the relations between objects (part-to-part, external relations expressible in spatial terms such as “alignment”).
It must be emphasized that Grosz herself does not embrace these implications and at many points works against them. The present account seeks to develop an account that thoroughly writes them out from the very beginning. It emphasizes the transindividual process through which individuals become. It tries to develop a vocabulary that never lets go of the idea that both the body and the subject are
always emergent, and never figure as preconstituted. It attempts to rethink instinct as including an element of creativity, from one end to the other of the continuum of life. Its project requires thinking immanent or “internal relation” (following a logic of “mutual inclusion” that will be developed in the course of the essay; this logic bears primarily on tendencies, understood as “subjectivities-without-a-subject,” not on objects or subjects). In the end, it finds it necessary to radically call into question the category separation between the operations of matter and the qualitative and subjective aspects of life’s “aesthetic” dimension of excess, expressivity, and artfulness (this division is implicit in the first quote from Grosz cited above, where matter comes across as dead and dumb). Here, sexual selection will taken to be a particular instance of nature’s creative “self-driving,” a special case of play.
4. Gordon M. Burghardt (2005), in his compendious study of the science of animal play, argues that specific play behaviors are far more widespread than traditionally thought. They are observable not only in placental mammals but also marsupials, a large number of bird species, and certain reptiles and fish. Among invertebrates, what he considers borderline playlike behavior is present in crustaceans, cephalopods, and even certain insects, including ants, bees, and cockroaches.
5. On the zone of indiscernibility (also called zone of proximity or neighborhood, zone of intensity, or zone of objective indetermination), see Deleuze and Guattari (1987, 225, 273–274, 276, 279–280; 1994, 17–18, 20–21, 24).
6. On grace as “a virtual or even nascent sympathy” signaling a “qualitative progress,” see Bergson (2001, 13).
7. See Manning (2013, 84–203) for an analysis of what (in another context, that of neurodiversity and autistic experience) the author calls the “shape of enthusiasm.”
8. As we will see in Supplement 2, the act of perception itself is a vital gesture  that carries an element of transformation-in-place and of play, and thus a degree of unmediated reflexivity that Ruyer calls “absolute survey.” Echoing Whitehead, Ruyer mentions “self-enjoyment” in connection with absolute survey.
9. Burghardt argues against the prevailing neo-Darwinian view that animal play can be adequately accounted for in terms of its adaptive value: “[It is] likely that   the initial advantages of incipient playlike behavior did not involve any particular functions, such as perfecting later behavior, increasing endurance, or facilitating
behavioral flexibility” (Burghardt 2005, 172). Since play exceeds any particular functionality, it can only be fully accounted for, he argues, as a function of “surplus.” As Brian Sutton-Smith remarks in his preface to Burghardt’s study, “play both originates from and creates surplus resources” (Burghardt 2005, x). Burghardt’s “surplus