resource theory” is careful to establish that the surplus resources in question are   not adequately understood in terms of surplus “energy.” In other words, they are not quantifiable (physiological) but have an irreducibly qualitative component, pertaining to “mental” and “emotional” factors (Burghardt 2005, 172–179).
10. Also on Darwin’s worms, see Bennett (2010, 94–109).
11. Whitehead should also be added to the list: “life lurks in the interstices of  each living cell” (1978, 105), and in his philosophy each occasion of life is considered to have a “mental pole” (more on which later). Biologist Brian J. Ford argues that the cells of multicellular animals are endowed with intelligence (Ford 2009).
12. That mental powers can reside outside the brain has been experimentally verified. It has been shown that amoebas, which as single-celled creatures are perfectly brainless, have memory and can anticipate the future (Saigusa et al. 2008). Extracerebral mental powers have also been demonstrated in multicellular animals. Flatworms, which have the enviable power to regenerate their brains, were trained to perform a task. They were then decapitated. When their brains grew back, they remembered the task they had been taught prior to losing their heads (Shomrat and Levin 2013). Instinct, of course, involves a mode of memory, what Ruyer calls an inherited “mnemic trace” that is reactivated by a stimulus (Ruyer 1958, 113–115). It is the difference between the mnemic trace and the singularity of the presently lived situation that already opens a minimal difference that puts a margin of play into even the most basic instinctive action, giving every perception an element of play (see Supplement 2). Play proper levers this opening further by means of -esqueness.
13. Burghardt also recognizes play as a motor of evolution: “We now recognize that play can be viewed both as a product and a cause of evolutionary change; that is, playful activities may be a source of enhanced behavioral and mental functioning as well as a by-product of prior evolutionary events” (2005, 121). Its surplus character makes play “both evolutionary detritus and evolutionary pump” (2005, 180)—always in excess.
14. Ford (2009) uses similar arguments in his case for cell intelligence, and  they are a common feature of theories aimed at counterbalancing the hegemony of neo-Darwinism’s mechanistic fundamentalism (see n. 2 for references). On the
evolutionary importance of “integrated wholes,” see Stephen Jay Gould and Robert Lewontin’s classic text “The Spandrels of San Marco” (1979, 581, 591, 594). Susan Oyama’s complex systems approach to evolution also emphasizes relational cocomposition: “In what will be referred to here as the reciprocal selectivity of influences, or the mutual dependence of causes, not only does an entire ensemble of influences contribute to any given phenomenon, but the effect of any interactant depends   both on its own qualities and on those of others, often in complex combinations” (Oyama 2000, 18). There is an emergently performative, improvisational element to the origination of these integral “complex combinations” because “patterns don’t exist as such before they are realized” (35). Molecular biology has recently corroborated Bergson’s point, turning its attention to immanently linked variations under the rubric of “secondary mutations.” This refers to a random mutation that causes “secondary effects elsewhere in the genome” in such a way as to “drive selection for