new mutations even in the absence of deliberate environmental selection pressures” (Vence 2013).
15. For a lengthy analysis of supernormal stimuli and integrally linked experiential variables, see Massumi (2011b) and (although less in depth) Massumi (forthcoming). Deirdre Barrett’s Supernormal Stimuli (2010), a recent best-selling popular science book, is an object lesson in all the ways this concept will not be used here—and stands as a reductio ad absurdum argument against the sociobiology it is based on,  in that it carries the tendencies inherent in that discipline to their embarrassing logical conclusion. We respond to supernormal stimuli, the argument goes, because they once had a useful function, and the predilection for them is still lingering in  our genes. But in our modern-day environment, they have become dangerously maladaptive. Take the supernormal hamburger. Our excessive taste for the empty calories from fat and carbohydrates made adaptive sense in paleolithic days when food energy was in short supply. Now the last things we need are empty calories. But we became culturally addicted to that and other supernormal tendencies, artificially extended them past their evolutionary use-by date. Their natural adaptive function lost, they have been co-opted by culture. The response to supernormal stimuli is now “artificial,” their allure purely “illusionary.” Once a supersized mammoth steak was a lifesaving energy boost. Today’s supersized Big Mac meal is coronary bypass. The aesthetic yield we derive from such attractions is not a life value. It’s death with  a pickle on top, killing us bun by bun. The obesity epidemic is a direct result of our supernormal tendency being taken out of its natural environment. So is war. It’s the supernormal stimulus of the chest beating of the now artificially pumped-up male that, similarly uprooted from its tribal survival value, is killing us collectively on a mass scale. Our supernormal tendency has made us deviate from the “real things”  in life. We must get real again. We must fight our supernormal tendencies. We
must rein them in. We must enlist against them the very culture that has kept them going. We must use culture to get culture out from under the pall of the supernormal tendency it transmits, bringing ourselves back into functional conformity with our “true human nature.” Culture should be the natural handmaid of normativity. Normativity should be culturally contrived to naturally reign supreme. We need to install an instinctual update on ourselves: Caveman 2.0. This use of an imagined paleolithic lifestyle (replete with the most archaic of gender stereotypes) as a yardstick for what is “naturally human,” and equating “cultural” with “unnatural” and deviant, is a mainstay of the sociobiological literature. For a classic critique of sociobiology, see Lewontin, Rose, and Kamin (1984, 233–264).
16. On blocks of becoming, see Deleuze and Guattari (1987, 232–309; 1986, 53–62). On the associated concept of blocks of sensation, see Deleuze and Guattari (1994, 163–199). Gould and Lewontin use the term “integrated developmental blocks” (1979, 597).
17. On mentality defined in terms of the capacity to surpass the given, see Deleuze’s analysis of Hume’s theory of knowledge (Deleuze 1991b, 22–36). Deleuze emphasizes that what is transcended is the mind itself: the movement of mentality,