which begins in the infra-individual activity of the imagination and feeds itself
forward into the supraindividual invention of institutions, is not containable in the interiority of a mind understood as an individual faculty. For Deleuze’s Hume, this constitutes a becoming of human nature. Here, the qualifier “human” is dropped. The capacity to surpass the given is construed as a mental power of nature that channels through individual lives. In this, it surpasses Hume, and flows into Whitehead’s “mental pole.” For Whitehead, mentality is an ultimate factor of nature, coconstitutive of every occasion. He also speaks of the activity of the mental pole as surpassing the given, defining it in terms of the origination of novelty (“a flash of novelty among the appetitions”) and the “growth of intensity” (Whitehead 1978, 184). He uses “appetition” as a synonym for the activity of the mental pole, to which he also gives the technical term “conceptual prehension”: “The basic operations of mentality are ‘conceptual prehensions’ ” (33). He offers, as other words for this capacity
to transcend the given toward the production of the new, “intuition” in Bergson’s sense (with certain reservations) and “envisagement” (33–34). Bergson also defines mentality in terms of a force capable of surpassing the given: “Visibly there is a force working . . . to surpass itself, to give first all it has and then something more than
it has. What else is mind? How can we distinguish the force of mind . . . from other forces save in this, that it has the faculty of drawing from itself more than it contains?” (Bergson 1920, 21). Finally, in his classic study of play as a distinct realm of activity in human culture, Huizinga makes a similar point about mentality, specifically with reference to play: “play only becomes possible, thinkable and understandable when an influx of mind breaks down the absolute determinism of the cosmos” (Huizinga 1949, 3). Huizinga also distances himself from both the substantivist connotations of the word “mind” and reductive notions of instinct: “If we call the active principle that makes up the essence of play, ‘instinct,’ we explain nothing; if we call it ‘mind’ or ‘will’ we say too much” (Huizinga 1949, 1).
18. Darwin notes the “capriciousness” and “love of novelty” of even the lower animals: “the lower animals are [ . . . ] capricious in their affections, aversions, and sense of beauty. There is also good reason to suspect that they love novelty, for its own sake” (Darwin 1871, 65).
19. “Mental decision on the one hand, and the appetite and physical state of the body on the other hand, are simultaneous in nature; or rather, they are one and the same thing which, when considered under the attribute of Thought and explicated through Thought, we call decision, and when considered under the attribute of Extension and deduced from the laws of motion-and-rest, we call a physical state.” Spinoza, The Ethics, pt. III, prop. 2 (Spinoza 2002, 281).
20. On desire as an immanent, self-driving principle productive of the real, see Deleuze and Guattari (1983). “If desire is productive, it can be productive only in the real world and can produce only reality” (25).
21. This folding back upon an immanent power of invention is the “creative involution” with which Deleuze and Guattari supplement Bergson’s “creative evolution” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 164–165, 238–241).