22. The French is joué, which like the English word play also refers to dramatization, as in playing a role. In the English edition, it is translated as “acted.”
23. “All Cretans are liars. I am a Cretan. Therefore I am lying,” in which case I am telling the truth. According to Russell, the problem arises from mixing logical levels, the metalevel pertaining to classes (all Cretans) and the particular level pertaining to members of classes (the Cretan that I am). Russell found no convincing logical way of effectively separating the levels, implying that there is no foolproof way that the map can be prevented from folding back into the territory. For Bateson’s discussion, see Bateson 1972 (180, 184–192).
24. On the distinction between vitality affect and categorical affect as equated with emotion, see Stern (1985, 53–57; 2010, 27–28). On the need to distinguish affect in general from emotion, see “The Autonomy of Affect” (Massumi 2002, 23–45).
25. On the theory of the transindividual, see Simondon (2005, 251–316) and Combes (2013, 25–50).
26. The distinction suggested here between form and content should not be taken as a validation of the traditional “hylomorphic” view that form is abstract while content is concrete, with form understood as a kind of mold imposing a shape on shapeless matter. Form and content must be thought of here in the way Deleuze and Guattari rethink them, following Hjelmselv, who displaces the distinction to make it one between content and expression. Both content and expression have forms, and these are in “reciprocal presupposition.” They also both have substance, making their reciprocal presupposition a nesting of imbricated form-matter complexes. Thus content and expression remain heterogeneous to each other, though strictly co-occurring. Here, the categorical affect as a recognizable kind of emotion, like fear, would be the “form of content.” Its eventfully lived feeling would be a “substance of content.” The point here is that vitality affect is the form of expression of categorical affect, and at the same constitutes its own feeling, irreducible to the categorical affect it brings to expression in the event. On form/substance of content/ expression, see Deleuze and Guattari (1987, 43–45, 85–91). On the critique of the hylomorphic model, see Simondon (2005, 39–51) and Combes (2013, 1–6).
27. “The fun of playing, resists all analysis, all logical interpretation. As a concept, it cannot be reduced to any other mental category” (Huizinga 1949, 3). For present purposes, this statement has to be qualified: the fun of playing resists all categorical analysis and all logical interpretation predicated on mutual exclusion.
28. A noncognitive theory cannot speak in terms of “the flesh” or “the body” as incarnating feelings or ideas and being enspirited by them. Any connotation of incarnation surreptitiously reintroduces a mind/body dualism. The use of the term “embodied” often falls into this trap, in spite of itself. See Maxine Sheets-
Johnstone’s critique of the connotations of incarnation in embodied cognition studies (2009a, 221; 2009b, 377, 394–395). Here, the adjective “incorporated” will be preferred to “embodied.” When the latter is used, it is with reservations.
29. The concept of importance here is in dialogue with Whitehead: “The sense of importance (or interest) is embedded in the very being of the animal experience” (Whitehead 1968, 9). Whitehead likewise grounds importance in the given imperatives of the situation. “Sheer matter-of-fact,” “the inescapable character of matter-of-fact,” is the “basis of importance” (Whitehead 1968, 4). At the same time, Whitehead emphasizes the vectorization of importance away from the “compulsive determinism” (7) of matter-of-fact, toward creativity, in openness to the future
(see Stengers 2011, 236–237). Thus “we have to explain the diverse senses in which freedom and necessity can coexist” (Whitehead 1968, 5). Whitehead uses the phrase “living importance of things felt” on p. 11. Lived importance itself carries a degree of abstraction, in that it equates the situation with others of its categorically affective kind. It is a lowest degree of abstraction consisting in the positing of a generality:  the identifiability of the categorical affect is what a number of situations have in common. It registers their felt sameness, in spite of their differences. In particular,  it registers the sameness of past situations, already lived, to the living of the present situation. Since each situation is concretely given with its differences from all the others, the experience of sameness qualifies as a surpassing of the given, which was the definition of mentality. Lived importance involves the mental operation of recognition as a lowest degree of abstraction in animal life. From this point of view, lived importance can be considered to be on the same continuum as lived abstraction, which is nevertheless qualitatively distinct from lived importance in that it registers the singularity of the situation—not its felt sameness but its felt differencing.
30. The famous and much-maligned James-Lange theory of emotion is a way of thinking about the nonreflective immediacy of the lived understanding of importance just mentioned. The theory is encapsulated in the formula “we do not run because we are afraid, we are afraid because we run.” This is often interpreted as a statement of physiological reductionism. It is not. For James, the point is in fact that the feeling of the fear comes flush with the action, which registers in its immediate orientation the lived importance of the situation (bear on the trail ahead . . . ). “My theory . . . is that the bodily changes follow directly the perception of the exciting fact, and that our feeling of the same changes as they occur IS the emotion” (James 1950, 449). Looked at from this angle of the flushness of emotion with action one with a felt awareness of change (which in the present vocabulary is called affect rather than “emotion”), the James-Lange theory can be considered, not a physiological reductionism, but a theory of corporeality, as understood here as a mode of thinkingfeeling, in all immediacy. It is worth noting in passing that James places instinct and “emotion” (affect) in mutual inclusion through a zone of indistinction: “Instinctive reactions and emotional expressions shade imperceptibly into each other. Every object that excites an instinct excites an emotion as well” (James 1950, 442).
31. For a full account of the relation between categorical affect and vitality affect, it is crucial to avoid any implication of linearity between them, as if the categoricalaffective content came first and the vitality affect then came second to transduce it. It is in fact only retrospectively that these two dimensions of the event can be separated out. In the rush of an event, they co-occur in a zone of indiscernibility. Categorical affect coincides with a relaunching of the anchored and oriented expressive