activity, which is precisely what is registered as vitality affect. Categorical affect and vitality affect are really distinct, but cannot be parsed out. As it happens, they come together. Retrospectively, it is another story. To paraphrase Whitehead, “this fearful feeling” (categorical affect and vitality affect co-occurring together as the experience) retroactively becomes “that feeling of fear” (a qualified content in experience). For an analysis of this evolving processual coimplication of vitality affect and categori     cal affect (corresponding to “emotion” in the present vocabulary), analyzed on the political level, see Massumi (2005; for the Whitehead reference, see 48, n. 10). The political situation in question (the Bush politics of terror) would seem anything but ludic, but much of the analysis of play developed here could be applied to it, with appropriate adjustments aimed at understanding the “play” of politics (its powers of the false, its forces of inventive abstraction).
32. On the concept of “a life,” see Deleuze (2007, 384–389).
33. As used here, corporeality roughly corresponds to what Whitehead calls the “physical pole” of the event. The contrasting “mental pole” is incorporeal. The body is what stretches between the two, and is determined by the working out of that tension. The body is not reducible to the corporeal, which is itself not reducible to the physical as understood in the usual sense, since (as explained in the main body of the essay and in n. 30) the corporeal as lived importance envelops a mode of
understanding and thus can be thought of as a degree of mentality. Correlatively, the incorporeal is driven by the supernormal tendency toward reincorporation in future events, and thus produces variations on corporeality. Recognizing these processual mutual inclusions of the corporeal and the incorporeal places the two poles on a continuum while respecting their difference, and without undoing the tension between them. Thinking the body, by this approach, requires an “incorporeal materialism” attuned to productive processual paradox (see Massumi 2002, 5–6, 16). The term comes from Foucault (1982, 23).
34. See n. 12, above, on the role of the “mnemic trace.”
35. For an excellent analysis of the relationship between sympathy and intuition in Bergson, see Lapoujade (2010, 53–75).
36. Sustaining a modal logic necessitates too high a level of abstraction to be fully practicable, since it requires continually translating substantives into verbs, against the grain of most languages. This difficulty results in an oscillation
between modal logic and difference of degree / difference in kind. Bergson’s Creative Evolution is a classic study in the modal logic of mutual inclusion—and in the difficulty of not falling back into logical vacillation. What many readers
interpret as the “dualities” or “binary oppositions” in Bergson’s thought—and in Deleuze and Guattari’s—must be reassessed in terms of contrasting tendencies in processual mutual inclusion. This applies perhaps most significantly to the distinction in Bergson between “matter” and “memory” and to such DeleuzeGuattarian distinctions in A Thousand Plateaus (1987) as nomadism/State and smooth/striated and, in What Is Philosophy? (1994), philosophy/art and concept/ percept.