37. The order of the phrases within this sentence was rearranged in the English translation. I follow the French order here.
38. For his part, William James describes the nature of primary consciousness as a transindividual field of thought-felt vital transformation in the following terms: “What we conceptually identify ourselves with and say we are thinking of at any time is the centre; but our full self is the whole field, with all those indefinitely radiating subconscious possibilities of increase that we can only feel without conceiving, and can hardly begin to analyze. The collective and the distributive ways of being coexist here, for each part functions distinctly, makes connexion with its own peculiar region in the still wider rest of experience and tends to draw us into that line, and yet the whole is somehow felt as one pulse of our life,—not conceived so, but felt so” (James 1996a, 132; emphasis added). This thinking-feeling is flush with doing.
39. On the being of relation, see Simondon (2005, 63). Deleuze (1986, 56) puts  it this way: consciousness is not of something (phenomenology), consciousness is something (Bergson). What it “is,” as we will see in Supplement 2, is “extra-being.”
40. It is always helpful to recall Nietzsche’s eloquent and often-quoted statement of this principle of the autonomy of doing: “A quantum of force is equivalent to a quantum of drive, will, effect—more, it is nothing other than precisely this very driving, willing, effecting, and only owing to the seduction of language (and of the fundamental errors of reason that petrified in it) which conceives and misconceives all effects as conditioned by something that causes effects, by a ‘subject,’ can it appear otherwise. For just as the popular mind separates the lightning from its flash and takes the latter for an action, for the operation of a subject called lightning, so popular morality also separates strength from expressions of strength, as if there were a neutral substratum behind the strongman, which was free to express strength or not to do so. But there is no such substratum; there is no ‘being’ behind doing, effecting, becoming; ‘the doer’ is merely a fiction added to the deed—the deed is everything” (Nietzsche 1967, 45). The activist philosophy in which the present project of constructing an animal politics grounds itself embraces this critique of substance and of the subject-predicate logic associated with it (which is wholly in the service of the logic of mutual exclusion and its category separations). The (thinking-) doing is everything; everything doing is a subjectivity-without-a-subject—a “driving, willing, effecting” with nothing behind it but its own forward momentum.
41. Abduction, as theorized by C. S. Peirce, involves an immediate “perceptual judgment” bearing on the singularity of an occurrent relation. He speaks of it in speculative-pragmatic terms as an immediately lived “hypothesis”: the gesture of straddling “is” and “could be.” The concept of abduction expresses the logical tenor of primary consciousness as thinking-feeling flush with subjectlessly subjective doing. See Peirce (1997, 199–201; 1998, 155, 191–195, 204–211, 226–242) and especially Peirce 1998 (223–224), where he glosses the concept of abduction using the example of dog thought.
42. On metamodelization, see Guattari (1995, 22, 29–31, 58–76) and Massumi (2011a, 103–104). Guattari defines metamodelization as “theoretical activity . . .