capable of taking into account the diversity of modelizing systems” (Guattari 1995, 22). He emphasizes that metamodelization is by nature transindividual: it “resides  in the collective character of machinic multiplicities” involving an “agglomeration of heterogeneous factors of subjectivation” coimplicated in a movement of “deterritorialization” (29–30).
43. On the ethico-aesthetic paradigm, see Guattari (1995, 9–10, 29). The contrasting perspective is developed by Bruno Latour in Politics of Nature (2004). For Latour, we must do away with the concept of nature in order to learn how to construct a “common world” assembling humans and nonhumans in a new democratic institution that would finally live up to the ideal of being truly and inclusively representative
(43 and passim). The issue for Deleuze and Guattari, on the other hand, is to reassume and reintensify the nature-culture / human-animal continuum to invent unrepresentable movements of singularization constituting a revolutionary democracy in the act.
44. See the colloquium at the Collège International de Philosophie, where the beginnings of this essay were presented: Intersections. 30e Anniversaire du Collège International de Philosophie, study day on Écologie: Des entités non-conventionnelles, Paris, June 15, 2013.
45. On this point from the point of view of an event-based ontogenetic philosophy, see Massumi (2011a).
46. See n. 43 above.
47. On this sense of “spiritual,” see “No Title Yet,” in Manning and Massumi (2014, 59–80).
48. As mentioned earlier, the reference here is to the concept of the “mental pole” as conceptualized by Whitehead. It cannot be repeated often enough that the mental pole is not substantive (the mental; the mind). It is a mode of activity that always cocomposes, in every act, with its complement, the physical pole (to which “corporeality” corresponds in the present vocabulary). These two aspects of every occasion are in direct, reciprocal embrace, without a mediating term or structure to come between them (their reciprocal embrace is not a structural coupling, but
coactivity in a zone of indiscernibility in which different modes of activity enter into resonance and interference). These contrasting poles are not the properties of a substantial being. Rather, they are constitutive modalities of events in the making. The lack of mediation in this “primary phase” of the happening of events forbids any appeal to representation and its fellow traveler, cognition, as belonging to
what Whitehead would call the “ultimate factors” entering into the constitution of the occasions of nature. “Knowledge [used here as a synonym for ‘cognizance’] is relegated to the intermediate phase of process . . . in general, knowledge seems   to be negligible apart from a peculiar complexity in the constitution of some actual occasion” (Whitehead 1978, 160–161).
49. As used in this account, “pathic” and “pathos” (see above in the discussion  of categorical affect, and below in Supplement 1) are closely related but not entirely synonymous (both derive from the Greek for “feeling,” its modern cognates carrying