a strong connotation of passive suffering). The pathic is defined here as activity reduced to negative avoidance-reaction in the face of pain or irritation, or denial mechanisms growing from such reactions. Pathos is the sinking feeling that comes with a predominance of pathic reactivity in one’s life. The pathic is the dynamic form of reactivity (the exclusively negative exercise of mental power when its activity is limited to reacting). Pathos is the categorical affect associated with arenas dominated by the pathic. The definition of the pathic here in terms of mentality
is another reminder that there is no such thing as purely physiological reactivity, as often implied in the concept of reflex. There is no purely physiological activity
either, mentality and physicality being contrastive poles mutually included, in some mode or other, however negligible the mental pole might be, in every bodying event. Guattari uses “pathic” in a different sense, as synonymous with the primary affective consciousness of intuition, thus in a meaning closer to the way “sympathy” is used here (Guattari 1995, 25–26).
50. On all of these points, see Whitehead (1967, 252–264; 1978, 162–163, 279–280).
51. When these conformal germs renew their alliance with the supernormal tendency, taking on its charge of intensity without affirming its open-endedness,  the infection turns virulent and a “microfascist” contagion results (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 10, 214–215, 228). Microfascism is a mode of mired becoming, spinning its wheels in the ultimately sterile paradox of an intensely appetitive becomingconformal. When a microfascist movement overpowers the State and other molar political apparatuses (as happened with Nazism and Italian Fascism), the paradox   of the spinning processual wheels moving at extreme appetitive speed explodes into murderous, and ultimately suicidal, violence (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 230–231). Fascism is an autonomy of expression turned fundamentally destructive.
52. On the “incorporeal transformations” that are effected in and through language and attribute themselves to bodyings, see Deleuze and Guattari (1987, 80–85). On language’s powers of variation in its relation to incorporeal transformation, see Deleuze and Guattari (1987, 94–100).
53. “It is the essence of the psychical to enfold a confused plurality of interpenetrating terms [mutual inclusion in a zone of indiscernibility] [ . . . ] The elements of a tendency are not like objects set beside each other in space and mutually exclusive, but rather like psychic states, each of which, although it be itself to begin with, yet partakes of others, and so virtually includes in itself the whole personality to which  it belongs” (Bergson 1998, 118).
54. On the concept of subjectless subjectivities in Deleuze and Guattari and Ruyer, see Bains (2002). The sheer doing with no doer behind it refers once again to the passage by Nietzsche cited in n. 40.
55. “Our study of the evolution of movement will have to unravel a certain number of divergent directions, and to appreciate the importance of what has happened along each of them—in a word, to determine the nature of the dissociated tendencies and estimate their relative proportion. Combining these tendencies, then, we shall get an approximation, or rather an imitation, of the indivisible motor