principle whence their impetus proceeds. Evolution will thus prove to be something entirely different from a series of adaptations to circumstances, as mechanism claims; entirely different from a realization of a plan of the whole, as maintained by the doctrine of finalism” (Bergson 1998, 101). On the need for a careful analysis of tendential mixes in order to avoid “false problems,” see Deleuze (1991a, 21–30).
56. Guattari explicitly links metamodelization to a logic of becoming based  on mutual inclusion: “In place of the traditional logic of sets described univocally
(where one always knows without ambiguity whether or not an element is included) schizoanalytic modelisation substitutes an onto-logic, a machinics of existence whose object is not circumscribed within fixed, extrinsic coordinates; and this  object can, at any moment, extend beyond itself, proliferate or abolish itself with the Universes of alterity with which it is compossible” (Guattari 1989, 65).
57. On techniques of relation from which the present project flows, see “Propositions for Thought in the Act” (Manning and Massumi 2014, 83–134), in which the techniques and concept-building of the philosophical laboratory, the SenseLab (Montreal, senselab.ca), are discussed. On speculative pragmatism, see Massumi (2011a, 12–15, 29–38, 85).
58. For more on ooo and speculative realism, see n. 1, Supplement 2.
59. The same argument applies to chaos. That fact that there has already been a taking-determinate form, and that the world is accordingly littered with the leavings of past emergences, means that the situation is always one, as James says, of “quasi-chaos” (James 1996b, 63). For Deleuze and Guattari, chaos is the
immanent limit of thought and existence where “the appearing and disappearing” of “infinite variabilities” coincide (1994, 202). This is the limit of mutual inclusion, where infinitely linked variabilities move no sooner out of than back into each other on the “plane of immanence.” When a mode of activity approaches this limit, a “semi-chaotic” formation, or “chaoid,” creatively emerges by a self-driving process of “chaosmosis” (204–206, 208). Chaos cannot be thought or felt as such, and has no existence (rather than exist, chaos “subsists” in the virtual, in the void, ineffective), except as “netted” or “filtered” into shape by chaoids, among which art prominently figures. Chaos, in this sense, is “composed.” Another name for  the plane of immanence is the “plane of composition.” Chaos is the flip side of morphogenesis, of the creative emergence of form: once again, two indissociable sides of the same processual coin. Still, there is always an excess or remainder to chaos, something which eludes capture, forcing the process of composing it to serially repeat. Spontaneity is the positive movement toward the limit of chaos, rebounding into creative emergence, and re-rebounding, iteratively. Understood in this way, spontaneity concerns the limit-case solidarity of the infinitely linked variabilities definitive of chaos. The very limit may be considered that of absolute contingency, but only  if absolute contingency is felt to coincide with the immanent void of an infinitely moving, dynamic solidarity of elements appearing from their disappearing into each other, and not the infinite looseness between elements usually connoted by the term.