60. For Giorgio Agamben, the only alternative to mutual exclusion is precisely to fall into a zone of indifference, a “zone of irreducible indistinction,” that is radically unproductive and cannot be surpassed (Agamben 1995, 9). For animal politics, the zone of indiscernibility is the very movement of self-surpassing. From the perspective of this essay, Agamben’s book on the animal (2003) is vitiated by the refusal to consider the possibility of inventing a way out of the logic of the excluded middle other than undifferentiation. The post-Heideggerian account of the animal as
“poor in world” around which Agamben’s analysis revolves is entirely dependent on a traditional notion of instinct as an automatic sequence of actions released by a “disinhibitor” (Agamben 2003, 51–53). Even if the human-animal separation this instills is “suspended” in the end, it is never surpassed. For Agamben, there is no alternative to it other than the negative one of accepting its foundational character
while rendering it “inoperative”—and with it the potential and activity of the human animal, reduced to a “great ignorance . . . outside of being” (92) (like the animal, from which the human now distinguishes itself by “appropriating” this base state of animality [80] rather than being instinctively “captivated” by it as nonhumans are). However, a way may still be found, Agamben remarks in conclusion, for the human and the animal to sit together “at the messianic banquet of the righteous” (92).
61. The problem with species has even made the news. From The Guardian: “Genetic tests on bacteria, plants and animals increasingly reveal that different species crossbreed more than originally thought, meaning that instead of genes simply being passed down individual branches of the tree of life, they are also transferred between species on different evolutionary paths. The result is a messier and more tangled ‘web of life.’ Microbes swap genetic material so promiscuously it can be hard to tell one type from another, but animals regularly crossbreed too—as do plants—and the offspring can be fertile. . . . ‘The tree of life is being politely buried,’ said Michael Rose, an evolutionary biologist at the University of California, Irvine. ‘What’s less accepted is that our whole fundamental view of biology needs   to change.’ ” Ian Sample, “Evolution: Charles Darwin Was Wrong about the Tree of Life,” The Guardian, Wednesday, 21 January 2009, www.guardian.co.uk/science/2009/ jan/21/charles-darwin-evolution-species-tree-life.
62. Chaos, as described in n. 59, is the virtual limit immanent to all life tendencies. In this sense, it is the absolute limit of life.
63. On incorporeal materialism, see n. 33 above.
64. Simondon’s idea is that a plant completes its individuation biologically, whereas an animal life continues to individuate psychically, preserving a certain neoteny. This distinguishes plant and animal as degrees of becoming on the continuum of nature.