(1986, 10–12). On the ape of Kafka’s “A Report to an Academy,” see Deleuze and Guattari (1986, 25–26).
2. On “particles of becoming,” see Deleuze and Guattari (1987, 261–262, 272–273).
3. On the indefinite article and becoming-animal, see Deleuze and Guattari (1987, 256, 263–264).
4. On the anomalous animal (l’anomal), see Deleuze and Guattari (1987, 243–247).
5. “A single abstract animal, a single abstract machine” (Deleuze and Guattari 1987, 45; see also 5, 255). In this passage, Deleuze and Guattari are referring to the “unity of composition” of the organic stratum. In the present essay, the “single abstract animal” is integrally stretched along the full continuum of nature, organic and inorganic, under the auspices of the supernormal tendency, bringing it more into the orbit of what Deleuze and Guattari later in A Thousand Plateaus call “pure animality” (499). See also n. 49, below, and Supplement 3, point 4, below.
6. A note on deviating from/with Deleuze and Guattari. Deleuze and Guattari remark that Kafka’s becomings-animal “show a way out” that they are “themselves incapable of following” due to the reterritorializing power of the Oedipal family (1986, 37). They write of “something other acting within” Kafka’s becomings-animal that takes absolute deterritorialization even further, toward more effective escape (37; trans. modified). These are “becomings-molecular” and “becomings-imperceptible” pertaining to “anorganic life” (1987, 279, 499, 503, 504). The anorganic is not to
be confused with the inorganic (although Deleuze and Guattari’s usage vacillates between using “anorganic” and using “inorganic” in an extended sense). Anorganic life is life unlimited to the “organization of the organs” of the functional/ adaptive animal form. It thus runs across the entire continuum of what is normally classified as inorganic and organic, without respecting this binary. The strategy of the present account has been to approach this “anorganic” continuum of nature emphasizing the immanence to the animal of the “something other acting within”   it to which Deleuze and Guattari refer. Here, that something other is construed in terms of the supernormal tendency to exceed function and adaptation, understood as the creative movement of nature. The problem from which the present project flows—that of constructing a concept of animal politics from the natural movement of creativity—entails different terminological choices than Deleuze and Guattari’s (such as calling the continuum simply that of “life,” and making the supernormal tendency the movement of “animality” along the full length of the continuum) and dispenses with the gesture of establishing an order of priority of becomings. In Supplement 3, below, the supernormal tendency will be seen to be uncontainable in
organic life. This opens a path to reconnecting with Deleuze and Guattari’s concepts of the anorganic and becoming-imperceptible and between this project and conceptual constructions, flowing from different problems, to which these concepts lend themselves. In A Thousand Plateaus, unlike Kafka, Deleuze and Guattari do not present becomings-animal as impasses. They are presented more positively, with much greater powers of deterritorialization, but are still considered to be gateways to even more powerful becomings-imperceptible (1987, 279–280, and all of plateau 11, “Of