Supplement 2: The Zoo-ology of Play
1. It is not an option for the present account to proceed as if it is possible to speak directly of objects in the absence of the human, conveniently forgetting that   it is a human animal that is speaking. The effort to do this, which is the founding gesture of speculative realism, is made in an attempt to escape “correlationism.” However, this bracketing of the act of thought makes all the more difficult the task of building an effectively noncorrelationist account of the differential mutual inclusion of the human in nonhuman nature, and conversely of the nonhuman in the human (what will be discussed in Supplement 3, point 3, as the “more-than-human”).
Meillassoux (2008) simply sidesteps the task with the notion that thought has a direct speculative access to the real, a feat that can be accomplished only by reasserting the primacy and self-sufficiency of logico-mathematical reasoning, in a return to a highly traditional idea of philosophy attributing it a universalist vocation. Who or what thinks, and what the implications are of the participation of the act of thinking in the world as it happens, is never raised (i.e., the fact that a thinking is always one with a bodying). Harman (2005) follows a different strategy. The real is said to be composed of objects in themselves, withdrawn from relation. In order to account for relation, another hypertraditional philosophical concept has to be resurrected from the graveyard of the history of thought to which Whitehead, among others, long
ago consigned it: the distinction between primary and secondary qualities, or the object in itself and the sensual object (for Whitehead’s critique of this “bifurcation  of nature,” see 1964, 26–48). This old distinction is revived with a twist. Histori cally, primary qualities were properties of objects, and secondary qualities belonged to the perceiving subject. Harman, in keeping with his object-oriented approach, migrates secondary qualities to the side of the object. Everything in correlationist thinking that was attributed to the subject is now arrogated to the object. In other words, a philosophy of the object without the subject is achieved simply by decreeing everything considered subjective in correlationist thinking to be objective. This enables the withdrawn object-in-itself to be retained in its absolute unity, at the   price of entering a “duel” (148–149) with its own multiple qualities, which appear in relation. What then holds the dueling aspects (“substance versus relation,” 183) of the object together? There is, we learn, a magic “glue” (153–154) that holds the whole universe together: “metaphor” is its name. Metaphor magically “converts quali-
ties of objects into objects in their own right” (“elements”) (162). But if secondary qualities are now elemental objects, don’t they also withdraw? We then enter into a complicated casuistry appealing to a mysterious “ether,” a kind of emanation
of the object’s “notes” in which “we,” human perceivers, “bathe.” In this bath, we