vicariously enter the orbit of the “black hole” of the object, which in itself remains “hidden from sight” (20) while “leaking” qualities and relation. How is this metaphorical glue not a hypostasization of what was formerly called subjective, turned object-oriented, like a coat worn inside out as a bold new style? How are “we,” perceivers of leakage, not generating secondary qualities as we “bathe” in the emanations of the ether, as we did all along according to correlationism? Have not all of the issues of correlationist thinking simply been shunted over the side of the object? Ever more casuistry is needed to suture over the problems created by the account itself. These are false problems entailed by the founding presuppositions of the enterprise: the need for a substance-based ontology, and the idea that the object is essentially withdrawn (Whitehead, on the contrary, defines the object as that which returns; 1964, 143). From the perspective advanced in this essay, ooo is little more than a mass production of false philosophical problems dressing old concepts and conundrums up in flashy new clothing. The falseness of the problems is betrayed by the conspicuous use of the “we” when it comes time to account for perception and relation. What “we” is this? The “we” remains generic. The generic “we” is always a sure sign of an implied subject: a bracketing of the act of thought as it happens. Must “we” really believe that arriving by intricately roundabout paths back at the implied generic human subject, now underpinning the rhetoric of an object-oriented metaphysics, is a philosophical advance? Must “we” implied subjects mortgage our thinking-doing activity to metaphor? Etherize our relational becomings? What politics is this? There are many alternate routes to noncorrelationist thinking—and they are all relationalist rather than substantialist. Bergson, Whitehead, Deleuze, Ruyer, and Simondon (not to mention Peirce) all develop thoroughly noncorrelationist relational metaphysics capable of accounting for the presence of the human while
at the same time respecting the ontogenetic autonomy of the nonhuman, recognizing the full reality of what lies beyond the human. The problem is not how to think the object without the human. It is to think the implication of the human in a reality that by nature surpasses it. The problem is the more-than-human—especially of the act of thought itself.
2. Agamben’s concept of suspension as producing only irreducible indistinction must be sharply contrasted with the ludic suspension theorized here, which suspends in order to embrace differences, and brace them for the production of still more difference.
3. On the distinction between the real conditions of emergence (catalytic potentialization) and logical conditions of possibility (formal cause), see Deleuze (1991a, 21; 1994, 67, 154).
4. Deleuze’s concept of extra-being as mobilized here is convergent with Whitehead’s theory of the subject as superject: “This is the doctrine of the emergent unity of the superject. An actual entity is to be conceived both as a subject presiding over its own immediacy of becoming [as a dynamic form transindividuating], and a superject which is the atomic creature exercising its function of objective immortality [the leaving behind of potential in trace form for subsequent becomings to take