up into their own constitution]. It has become a ‘being’; and it belongs to the nature of every ‘being’ that it is a potential for every ‘becoming’ ” (1978, 45). The “being”
of the superject is a becoming reaching its culmination (“satisfaction”), and at that precise moment “perishing” into the potential it bequeathes to the world, contributing to the real conditions of emergence of what could come next. The superject closely corresponds to Deleuze and Guattari’s “synthesis of consumption” in AntiOedipus (“so that was me!”) (1983, 16–21).
5. In the vocabulary of Anti-Oedipus, the structure of human politics is the “repressing representation” of human exceptionalism that serves as a decoy for animal desire. Deleuze and Guattari argue that psychoanalytic discourse is part and parcel of the repressing representation of the Oedipal family (1983, 115, 164–166). Agamben’s thought, for all its interest, must be considered part and parcel of the repressing-representation of the zoe-bios structure, to the extent that it imposes  the infernal alternative between this human-political order of differentiation and
undifferentiation. This leads to the impasse of negativizing potential. For Agamben, the highest potential, “pure potential,” can only be construed as the “power not to”: potential suspended without outlet, in an irreducible zone of indistinction holding acting and not-acting, thinking and not-thinking, together in irresolvable contradiction—or to be more precise, the only outlet from which is not affirmation and appetition, but indifference taken to a higher power, where the contradiction doubles over on itself into a negation of the negation (Agamben 1999, 141, 153). The thinking of contradiction and negation can only grasp “logical conditions of possibility” (formal cause), which it finds not in the world’s dynamic gaps, but in aporia (formal cause elaborated into a negative theology, in which what is considered sterile paradox from the perspective developed here is attributed a messianic power).
6. On the groundless ground of vital experience which surpasses it, see Deleuze (1994, 91, 229–230).
7. This is what I call “bare activity”(Massumi 2011a, 1–3, 10–11; 2010), discussed below in Supplement 3, point 4.
8. Bergson also speaks of instinct in terms of themes. Comparing instinctual behavior in social insects, he says that the behaviors are not pieced together part-topart, but come in thematic blocks all of whose elements undergo integral variation. “The degree of complexity of these societies has nothing to do with any greater or smaller number of added elements. We seem rather to be before a musical theme, which had first been transposed, the theme as a whole, into a certain number of tones and on which, still the whole theme, different variations had been played, some very simple, others very skillful. As to the original theme, it is everywhere and it is nowhere” (Bergson 1998, 171–172).
9. On the conversion of enveloping affect into emotional content, see Massumi (2005, 37–38).
10. As part of a different conceptual constellation, “as if ” can be taken in an aesthetically potentializing sense: see Manning and Massumi, “Just Like That” (2014, 31–58), where the conceptual issue is the relation between language and movement.