renewing its ties with nature—as if the human and nature could ever be in a relation of mutual exteriority, even for a lapsarian moment.
2. For another account, again from a very different philosophical perspective, that works at the limit of the traditional logic of life, see Thacker (2010). Thacker does not embrace the positive project of constructing an alternate logic, preferring to work with the aporetic complexities produced at the limit of the traditional logic, under the sign of the negative (contradiction).
3. Scholarly treatments of the posthuman approach the question, of course, with much more nuance than the cursory post-itinerary sketched here (Hayles 1999; Haraway 2004; Braidotti 2013). Most assert that the animal and the human, nature and culture, are on a continuum (Wolfe 2013 is a prominent exception). Yet posthumanist discourse as a whole is mightily afraid of instinct, to the point that the word almost never comes up except to be shunted aside. The nature-culture continuum is construed as postnatural, precisely in order to exorcise instinct, considered to have been left in the dustbin of natural history by the artificial reconstruction of the continuum by machines and technology. Repeat: there is nothing more effectively and paradoxically artificial than nature under the propulsion of its constitutive tendency toward the supernormal—which has everything to do with instinct. Posthuman approaches also retain, as part of their cultural studies inheritance, “the subject” as a privileged analytical category (this is even true of Braidotti 2013, which in terms
of its philosophical references is closest to the approach developed here). In short, scholarly posthumanism is insufficiently supernormal, and too seriously inoculated against subjectivities-without-a-subject. Posthumans, Haraway says, are ironic. But: do they play?
4. I have elsewhere called this “feedback of higher forms” to emphasize how the operations of language in particular loop back to the infraindividual level of incipient action, where they figure as an immediate factor in becoming (Massumi 2002, 10–12, 35–39, 198–199).
5. Deleuze develops a similarly topological theory of the inside and outside in terms of folding (1988b, 94–123), as does Simondon: “true implicit forms [roughly corresponding to Deleuze’s larval subjects] are not geometrical but topologi-
cal” (Simondon 2005, 53). For Simondon, “the living lives at its limit,” conceived   as a two-way membrane (2005, 225). Since implicit forms nest in one another in complex fashion, the “membrane” is not simply reducible to the envelope of the skin, but must be conceived of fractally. On topology, see also Simondon (2005, 28, 210–211, 224–229, 254, 304). Whitehead’s post-Leibnizian open-system monadism envisions an infinity of actual occasions (also called actual entities) nested in each other. He emphasizes that the levels interrelate not through their physical forms, not by their quantifiable part-to-part connection but, more abstractly, through  their “subjective forms.” These he defines qualitatively, in affective terms (equivalent here to “vitality affect”). On subjective form as determining the interrelating between actual occasions, and defined in affective terms, see Whitehead (1967, 176–177, 182–183).