Play instinctively belongs to the aesthetic dimension. In order to take what is singular about play fully into account, it is necessary to resituate it on a continuum that stretches the full length of the current of life, on all of its levels, from the most basic instinct all the way up to the most elaborated capacities for ludic expression and lived abstraction—those of human language. Human language: pure standing-for, with unparalleled powers of paradox, capable of producing the purest, most intensely abstract, expressive values. Human language: whose conditions of evolutionary possibility are set in place by play, on the continuum of instinct. All along the continuum, all of life, from the mutest of its instinctual expressions to its most loquacious, carries an irreducibly aesthetic dimension. Life itself is inseparable from the aesthetic yield it continuously enjoys. Ruyer takes up Whitehead’s term self-enjoyment as a synonym for the surplus-value of lived abstraction (Ruyer 1952, 103). The aesthetic yield of play is the qualitative measure of its uselessness. The -esqueness of the combatesque corresponds to the stylistic difference between executing an act and dramatizing it, between fulfilling a function and staging its standing-for. A gesture plays a ludic function to the exact degree to which it does not fulfill its analog function, which the ludic gesture places in suspense in the interests of its own standing-for it. If the expressive value of the standing-for is not pronounced enough, if the difference corresponding to the act’s -esqueness is too minimal, if the gap between the arena of play and its analog arena is opened too slight a crack, if in a word the aesthetic yield is negligible, then the play activity can too easily turn into its analogue. Too quickly, the bite denotes what it denotes, and no longer what it would denote. It’s war. There may well be blood. The game’s surplus-value of life flips over into a deficit, in a transformationin-place as immediate as that which inaugurated the play. The aesthetic dimension of the gesture retracts into an act of designation (“this is a bite”) and into instrumental action (“whether I meant to or not, I am now effectively doing what I’m doing, and no longer what I would do”).