2 public talks by 2 visitors who came for a 2 week residency.
 
2pm: DAVID LEE CARLSON Bio:David Lee Carlson is currently an associate professor at the Mary Lou Fulton Teachers College at Arizona State University (Tempe). He currently does research in the areas of Queer Studies in Education, Qualitative Inquiry, and Methods of Teaching English. His is the co-author of the book, Composing a Care of the Self: A Critical History of Writing Assessment in Secondary English Education (Sense Publishers).   Work resume:The purpose of my project is to explore Michel Foucault’s notion of gay ascesis as friendship, and to link it to specific threads in the fields of Queer Studies in Education and Foucauldian studies. Ascesis is a term Foucault uses in his 1981 interview with the French magazine, Le Gai Pied entitled, Friendship as a way of life, to describe “the work that one (homosexual) performs on oneself in order to transform oneself or make the self appear which, happily, one never attains” (Foucault, 1997, p. 137). I am interested in exploring the pedagogies of friendship in relation to Michel Foucault’s ideas of friendship as a way of life as gay ascesis. As such, I am interested in looking at how bodies and pleasure play a part in constituting friendships as a way of life as well as how teaching and learning foster those relationships. The project explores how friendship as a gay ascesis through bodies and pleasures engenders an ethical care of the self that produces ecstatic thinking and an ethic of disorientation. The book argues against the traditional philosophical (Deontological and Consequential) and economic notions of friendship (Neoliberal), and instead argues that friendship can be a pedagogical tool, one that involves teaching and learning, that helps one to fashion oneself. It offers a new ethical stance on friendship, which is the notion of disorientation.  The knot in my work consists of how to rub together seemingly disparate and complex bodily ways of knowing with pedagogical ones. Protocols of teaching and learning rely primarily on empirical and post-positivists assertions based on measurement and evaluation. The possibility of pedagogy being visceral and non-representational relies more on descriptive and ineffable features. Time reflected primarily in stage and recapitulation theories collapse to some extent in the process of relating pleasure, body, and friendship in the pedagogical endeavor. New or perhaps unknown languages emerge through and with the body and yet must capture or present particular ways of knowledge or understanding. Time, Language and affect present certain knots in my work as discussions about the pedagogical of friendship as a homosexual ascesis materialize.   3:30pm: MONICA MONIN Bio: Monica Monin is an artist, designer and teacher. She lectures at the University of Technology Sydney within the Visual Communications Design program and is currently undertaking a PhD at University of New South Wales Art & Design. Her research and practice investigates ‘coding materialities’, where code and computational processes are conceived and situated within ongoing reticulations of material formation, yielding new materialities. She is interested in finding vital ways to apprehend and work with computation as co-creator, and through poetic engagements to elaborate upon the expressive, emergent and (re)combinant capacities of computational processes. Website: http://monicamonin.com/ Work resume: Her works are usually idiosyncratic, ongoing, dynamical processes which take the form of experimental infrastructures, installations, text or digital processes (code). For this talk she would like to have a discussion with you about her recent work Conversation Theory, in which two digital processes engage in a conversation. Where the conversation or exchange of data between the two bodies of code, a common computational process that would usually occur below the threshold of human perceptibility, operates across actual physical space/distance. One program can read images and display text via a dedicated camera and screen, and the other can read text and display images via its own dedicated camera and screen. For Monin the works networks of relations (both internal and external) and mutual action display a compositional activity that is processual, where conversational actions or events are ‘a shifting attunement within a broader event’ (Murphie, 2013). This leads us some of the way to begin explicating the potential of a more contingent mode of computation as a material and compositional force.