The becoming-reactive of thinking-feeling is what Nietzsche rebelled against as the life of ressentiment. Ressentiment takes many other forms. All, in one way or another, involve what Deleuze called a refusal of the event as a consequence of how the objective illusion constitutive of perception plays out: a simplifying, generalizing, self-stereotyping response to the transformational-relational field that misperceives its potentials, and in doing so curtails them. Although my focus is on right-wing versions of ressentiment, because I find them so dangerous and so off-base, it is important to acknowledge that there are leftist versions of it as well.
My use of the word "trigger" will immediately evoke associations with the vocabulary of the current revival of "progressive" identity politics in North America, which in certain forms assumes ressentiment as a political tool of resistance against the opposing identity politics of the right with its resurgent racism: a counter-becoming-reactive. This is certainly understandable and, given the situation, may well be strategically necessary, at least at certain levels or certain moments. But it is important not to forget that it builds from what, from the point of view of a processual take on the subjective becomings stirring in the transformational-relational field, must still be considered inadequate ideas. Serious efforts are made to overcome the inadequacy through attention to the systemic nature of racism and other forms of category-based oppression, which resituates the perceptual triggers in a larger perspective of what organizes patterns of perception without itself being perceptible as such. This steers this form of politics away from "stupidity" as I've been talking about it, as the blank refusal of the event (something the right specializes, even revels in). So does the active reconnection to bodily potentials for resistance achieved through a political use of anger as a reaction. But the starting point is still reaction. And the activation achieved remains wed to an episodically renewed becoming-reactive, which continues to serve as its motor. The political activation paradoxically builds upon the point at which a body is separated from what it can do. Capacitation is arrived at, but its reaccess is always via a detour through reaction, raised to a higher power by negative critique. This formats the achieved capacitation along pre-laid ideological lines.