BM: Yes, the writing has its own rhythm. Sometimes there are smooth runs with a sense of continuous movement. Other times the writing ties itself up in knots and becomes involuted, sometimes so tightly that I can’t necessarily parse it out myself. But I can't take the involutions out, because the knotting's productive.  The involution feeds the problem forward. I have to go through the knotting in order to find the next continuing thread in the conceptual weave. This idea of the thinking running itself through me connects with Deleuze’s notion of philosophy as being a creative practice in its own right. Philosophy's not about critiquing concepts, and it's not about judging other ways of thinking or other modes of practice. It's about creating new concepts, producing new conceptual movements. This involves a great deal of solitary activity. Because of that, the process can turn in on itself and flounder in a black hole. When that happens, the philosophizing has to find ways of reconnecting to its own outside. That's why Deleuze so often talks about the importance of the non-philosophical field for philosophy. The relation to non-philosophical fields of activity is a way for philosophy to recharge its intensity, to refuel its movement by finding new contributing conditions for the next run and the next pulsing. That involves participating in other forms of activity that are creative, or experimental, or exploratory, and trying to contrive a symbiotic relationship between writing and participatory forays into a non-philosophical field, especially arenas of activity where nonverbal activity is a major factor and the thinking is in the doing or the making – dance, architecture, performance ... Philosophy can and should do field work, bringing the thinking that is in the doing into language, to give it new expression, and in the process renew itself. Philosophy should never erect itself as the judge of correctness or good sense. And it should never 'apply' concepts. It should lift them, in the sense of pirating them or hijacking them, always in seed form, to see how else they might grow; but also in the sense of making them rise, like a leavening.