The point is that the relation of a mode of activity to others is immanent to its exercise. It's not inter-, its infra-. But I'm talking here of modes of activity, not disciplines. It's not necessarily the case that a discipline that claims rights over a mode of activity actually takes it to its limit. More often, it curtails any movement to the limit. Philosophy departments are typically the last place you'll find philosophy practiced creatively in the way I'm talking about. Disciplines are concerned with gate-keeping to safeguard their prerogatives, and with reproducing themselves institutionally. That's why I never formally studied philosophy, and have never taught in a philosophy department. The authors I was interested in were being kept outside the gates, and I had to go into French literature to do philosophy. That interdisciplinary move was a necessary condition for doing philosophy for me. I think the non-philosophical has two senses. The primary sense is philosophy's convergence on other modes of activity from within its own tendency, taken to the limit. You could call that transdisciplinary. Then there's a secondary sense of the non-philosophical that is a consequence of that, which is interdisciplinary moment, when philosophy nests itself, cuckoo–like, in another arena of activity, in order to be able to follow its own movement unencumbered by the discipline that has grown up to contain it. Interdisciplinarily, if it's doing its job, philosophy will never be entirely accepted. I currently teach in a communications department. I'm treated well, and what I do is tolerated, but only as long as it doesn't lead too many students astray or take up too much space. That kind of uneasiness is because of philosophy's necessary relation to the useless, its outrunning of function and utility. Disciplines vie for funding and students by making arguments about how socially useful they are. The first thing I tell my students when I start a new class is that if I'm truly successful in my teaching what I will teach them will have absolutely no immediate benefit for the job market. This doesn't exactly endear me to most of them. They're supposed to be paying for a service, after all. Philosophy is not a service industry.