Going back to the idea of vitality affect, and our discussion of the dog bark, I was saying that you feel it coming even before you can consciously understand what the event is about, in the sense of reflecting about it. At that first exhalation of the dog barking, you’re already in the barking before you’ve consciously identified it as barking, you’re in the arrival of the bark, in a way that takes you directly into its movement. You know you're in it, before you can register that fact reflectively. You're already inducted into the event, thinking it on the same level you are feeling it, before you can reflect. You're feeling the singularity of this event, at the same time as your induction into it is awakening all sorts of things that retrospectively, when you have the luxury of reflecting on it, you will recognize as belonging to that kind of event. Every barking is singular, but no event ever comes just once. They repeat, and the repetition is just as much a part of what makes the event as its singularity. So at the same as we're feeling the event dawning, we're starting to feel the likeness of the event. This isn't a comparison yet, because you can only compare when you have an outside vantage point on more than one event, but here you're absorbed in this event. The likeness of the event is to itself, as it's occurring. It's how the event carries its relation to other events, past and potential, in itself, presenting both what makes it comparable to them as one of their kind, and its own singularity that sets it apart. The likeness of the event to itself, in itself, is the difference the event has in its own constitution between what's new in it and what could be recognized in it, or between how it can be experienced as a repetition of a certain kind and why it has to be experienced at the same time as a variation. This is a minimal difference. Later, on reflection, when things are quiet, that minimal difference can be pried open in reflection, making space for comparison with other events.