BM: Exactly. It's about the interrelating of the senses, but doesn’t correspond in any direct manner to sensory input, however multi-channeled. The lived quality of an event, its vitality affect, which I associated with the semblance, can't be plotted back to any particular sensory input. It doesn’t correspond to a particular impingement of light on our retina, or sound on our eardrums. You can’t think the event without thinking beyond that level of sense-impression. The semblance of the event is nonsensuous. But that doesn't mean it's an illusion. It's as much a part of the reality of the event as the movement of molecules and photons and their physical impingements on our sensory apparatus. Semblance is a way of saying that there’s something else in play that isn't sensuous and in no way resembles it. Does a sound wave impinging on our eardrum resemble a dog? I've never encountered a dog in the shape of a sine wave. Does a photon that hits our retina resemble an object? Photons are by nature invisible. But they give rise to vision. That's the point – the event never resembles its conditions of emergence. It surpasses them, into its own reality as an event, striking on the level on which it is experienced. It can't be reduced to any other level. But at the same time it can’t be separated from any of the levels that contribute to its emergence. It wraps them up into its own arising. Some of those enveloped levels are sensuous, in other words correspond to a physical impingement on our body's perceptual apparatus, and some are already nonsensuous. For example, every event wraps its immediate past into its unrolling. Through the immediate past come more distant regions of the past, in the form of various inheritances passing down the line of events as they repeat and vary. The immediate past is no longer. What is no longer has no physically impinging presence, and so can't possibly correspond to any sensuous input. It's by nature nonsensuous. So is the immediate future that the event tends toward, following the momentum it has inherited from the immediate past. All of this is something Whitehead emphasizes, and makes fundamental to his metaphysics (Whitehead 1967: 180-183).