One example of a semblance that I often think about goes back to my childhood. It was just a small event, but it has stayed with me. I was in a car and a van sped past, lost control, and left its lane. It tried to swerve back in the right lane without hitting our car, and it rolled over several times. There’s a kind of untimeliness to an event like that. It happens so quickly, in a state of shock, that you’re bracing for what’s happening without cognizing it. You're aware of what's happening, of course, intensely aware of it, but not in any way you would compare to your normal state of reflective cogitation. You know exactly what’s happening, but you couldn’t put it into words. The understanding comes as a feeling, with a distinct affective tonality and force. But in the feeling there is already a thinking of the event. You're braced for what might come. All kinds of felt hypotheses about what exactly will happen in the end hit you en masse. I call this 'in-bracing,' because it's less that you're in your head bracing for what's coming, than you're in the potential of the event, body and soul, braced into the event as surely as your seat belt braces you to your car. You are utterly absorbed in the event, at no distance from its happening. In that bracing, you can't know exactly how it will turn out, but you certainly know how it's "like" to be in that event. That's pretty much all you know. That minimal difference I was talking about before is intensified, to the point that it feels uncanny. You have a weird sense of déjà-vu, knowing full well that this is a singular event. The déjà-vu is not a comparison to a past event. It's the weird, intensified feeling of this event's likeness to itself: "so this is what it's like be in an accident …" It's like the event is doubled. At the same time it is intensely itself, it is just as intensely like itself. That déjà-vu feeling is the semblance of the event. It's like the abstract double of the event. What it boils down to is the feeling of the event's potential to be just what it will have come to be, while the potential is still playing out. It's like a feeling of the dynamic form of the event, its arcing out of potential into its own completion. This is a thinking-feeling, in the sense that the immediacy of the feeling isn't separable from abstractness, from the abstractness of potential, and from the semblance as the event's uncanny self-abstraction. None of that can be parsed out into separate sense inputs. The sound of the tires screeching heightens your seeing the swerve. You're not hearing separately from seeing. You're experiencing their interrelationship. The hearing and the seeing wrap up together in the semblance.