BM: The semblance has an uncanniness, but it doesn’t have to be so grand as the sublime or so destabilizing as the ghostly. You could think of the semblance as a kind of ghostliness doubling every sensory experience. The ghostliness is related to the feeling of déjà-vu I was talking about. We experience the abstract line of the mouse event as if it were in vision, when it actually isn’t. The semblance always comes out of the interaction between senses. It's what Michel Chion, the cinema theorist, talks about as a synchresis: an emergent effect that works across sense modalities and has a unique quality that neither has alone. (Chion 1994). He gives examples of how we have the experience of seeing things in a film that are actually only heard. But if the timing is right, the sound’s interaction with vision creates a sight that was "heard." It’s actually a fusion of hearing and vision: audio-vision. It’s what happens between the two, in the way they come together. The semblance always happens between two, or between three, or between any number of senses that might be involved. It’s not in a sense modality. It’s "amodal." What’s between two sense modalities is not in one or the other, it’s in their relationship, and in that relationship a unique form of experience emerges that has a quality all its own that's amodal. It always has to do with the composition of the senses. That means that you can manipulate or create or construct semblances by how you technically rearrange their conditions of emergence. That little nothing that is everything in art that you were talking about in relation to Bergson, I think that it has to do with the amodal, and the idea that what emerges on the amodal level doesn’t resemble its conditions of emergence. That aspect of the event's non-resemblance to its own conditions – which is at the same time its likeness to itself – means that the event is taking a certain distance on itself. That aspect is not often attended to directly, but it can be. It's that little something, or little nothing, that makes all the difference, that effectively makes the event the event that it is, with its unique vitality affect. That's precisely the event's aesthetic dimension. For example, if you have an interactive form of art based on conversation or conviviality, what makes it art, and not just a conversation? A conversation has its own mode of activity. A conversation becomes artistic when the conditions of its occurrence are set in a way that offsets it slightly from its own mode, that create that minimal distance of conversation to itself, giving it a unique vitality affect that just any conversation doesn't have – a little something extra. In what we recognise as an art context, we're primed to attend to the something extra. Art brings the amodal, and the qualitative element of vitality affect that coincides with it, to more palpable expression.