So there is a whole choreography that ritualizes the conversation. I think this drives some people crazy, because they feel it's not a "real" conversation, like it's less than one. But that's the point. The point is to make conversation reflect upon itself, not just to reflect in conversation on other things, and certainly not to reflect on conversation. When the performance is working, that little something less becomes a something more. The ritualization does create the conditions for a semblance of a conversation to emerge. The experience doubles over on itself. You're experiencing the semblance of the conversation at the same time as you’re experiencing the conversation, and they resonate in each other to yield a peculiar vitality affect. This is not quite like any conversation you've been in before. There's also a very interesting dynamic that sets in over time, as the performance ran for seven hours a day six days a week for two months, with the performers working in shifts. The conversational form begins to exhaust itself.  There are a limited number of quotes, which makes for a huge amount of repetition for the performers. After awhile, you start rolling your eyes when a certain quote comes up again, because you've exhausted everything you have to say about it. So then you have to find a way to deal with your own potential boredom. This is actually the point where the performance becomes truly relational, because you can no longer just draw on your own resources – you’ve already exhausted them. You have to find ways of triggering the other performers into seeing the issue differently, so they say something different, and then you can work from that to generate something to say that you would never have thought of saying otherwise. That's where it begins to get inventive. It becomes truly improvisational. It is no longer you who are speaking, or some other individual. The conversation passes between. It truly becomes a collective enunciation – a subject-group as Guattari would say. It doesn’t happen all the time, in fact it's pretty rare that it happens, but for me as a performer when it did happen it reenergized the whole piece. The weird thing is, the whole thing gets most intense at those moments, where you're no longer speaking in your own voice, or performing your individual point of view. You even start saying things you don't actually believe, because the situation seems to be asking for it to be said. It becomes a kind of group thought experience of what is it possible to think with these people, in this situation, around the issues brought up by the quotes. It does become a quite singular situation. It's different each day, and it's especially different depending on the cast of performers who happen to be there on a given shift. That makes the idea of selling the piece interesting, too. Without documentation, when the piece is reperformed, it will resingularize itself. It will go down really differently. So Sehgal is drawing on the iterative powers of variation I was talking about before, and making something happen that recapitulates the way capitalism and the art market operate, but can also make something not entirely capturable come to pass. Different cultural contexts undoubtedly make a big difference. The bilingual nature of the Montreal performance, and all the etiquette and tensions around which language is used when, certainly made for a singular dynamic in that iteration.