BM: There’s been a lot of talk recently in philosophy and cultural theory about capitalism as mobilizing circulation of goods, information, people, bodies, and also forms of collaboration, forms of relationality, forms of experience, and pushing them ever further in a tighter and tighter circle, in faster and faster turnover. There is a critique of Deleuze and Guattari coming out of that. Deleuze and Guattari are interpreted as advocating the strategy you just mentioned, as saying that we have to take the tendencies of capitalism further, to the point that the system crashes. This is one version of what is referred to as "accelerationism." But Deleuze and Guattari don't actually say that. What they say is that at that emergent nexus I was talking about before, at the infra-level of event formation, there are tendencies stirring which, if they were fostered and taken to their logical conclusion, would outrun or overspill capitalist capture. They're not talking about taking capitalism's tendencies further. They're talking about counter-tendencies to capitalism that are infra-, or immanent, to capitalism's process – but not its system. They're not in the way capitalism orders or regulates itself, or fails to effectively, they're in its conditions of emergence – which, going back to our earlier discussion, do not resemble it. The immanent counter-tendencies stirring at the emergent level are by nature self-affirming, unless they're captured or preempted. They are self-validating, and create their own experiential value. What they "want" is to run to their fullest expression, and capitalist capture curtails that. So they're off-kilter to the capitalist system, which is not monolithic. It's global, even universal in a sense, but it's not monolithic. It's too adaptable, too transmutable, and too wily in its transmutations, for that. Which is another reason why it's not reducible to a structure or a system, that it's a process. Anyway, it’s the off-kilteredness that you have to push further, not the tendencies of capitalism, even its own potentially suicidal mania for acceleration and faster and faster turnover feeding the production of its monetary form of surplus-value. When capitalism crashes, it carries countless lives down with it. The accelerationist strategy is playing with fire, and it's not the relatively privileged proponents of that doctrine who would get burned the most. The idea I'm suggesting is that you can meet capitalism strategically on the ground to which it returns to renew and reenable itself, that is to say its field of emergence. That field is rife with germinal potentials of all kinds which are not capitalistic per se – capitalism wouldn't have to "capture" tendencies if they weren't liable to escape. The idea is to find a way to return to that terrain of emergence otherwise, spiking the potential differently, fostering different kinds of tendencies oriented toward the production of self-affirming surplus-values of life that answer to a purely qualitative economy, multiplying and accelerating that escape from capitalism, that leak from it.