BM: I wouldn’t put it in those terms, because I think that in moments of change, we’re immersed in a relational field where actions are so closely intertwined that it’s very hard to separate out an agent. There’s a kind of field-effect that means that factors combine, fuse, enter into tension, so that what happens, happens between, in the complexity of it. So if you talk about what the political subject needs, I think you’re already making the transition toward the macropolitical level. The concept of belief is very problematic for me because it brings the political back into the interiority of the subject. The concept of hope is similarly problematic. It addresses individual aspirations, even if it's often in the name of a coming-together. What I think is needed in political action is not a hope, but a way. Ways of continuing to move, continuing to be implicated with others in activities that have their own value, their end in themselves, just by virtue of the quality of experience that they give. I think more in terms of intensity, intensities of relation, than of hope. As we saw with the 2008 Obama presidential campaign, hope can be an extremely powerful mobilizing force. But it is just that, a mobilizing force, not a self-organizing movement. A mobilizing force is a sovereign force, a power-over. At any rate, the mobilization of hope is guaranteed to disappoint because it promises some sort of lasting solution. It’s a kind of redemptive gesture. But in this world there is no redemption. There’s only the intensity of the ongoing, with the variations that eventuate. Instead of offering hope, what I think needs to be done is to experiment with techniques enabling people to reconnect with relational fields that yield enhanced intensity, that produce surplus-value of life expressing themselves in emergent forms of organization and experience. As these movements grow and proliferate, it is inevitable that at some point they will confront macropolitical obstacles. If the technique is there, they may even be able to assert solutions to macropolitical questions while refusing capture, while refusing to abandon their own micropolitical quality, tendencies, and penchant for escape. 
This is where a concept of belief can come back in. But it doesn’t have to do with belief in a political program, or belief in an ideology or doctrine. There are other forms of belief that you could think about. For example, at the incipient level I've been talking about, the germinal level of any event, I think it’s more the case that you find yourself again in an event, rather than that you believe in something and get there following your belief. It's related to the kinds of interruptions and ruptures we were talking about when I was saying that we’re braced into an event before we have a chance to cognize a path, or stop and choose where we are going. That bracing into the event happens so quickly that our cognizance of it is always at a slight remove, at a slight lag, so that by the time we are in a reflective mode of assessing and choosing, we’re already out of the event, in its future. In the moment, there is no act of judgment that occurs separate from the in-bracing – which as we saw, was already a form of thinking, considering the abstractness of the semblance, and the immediate comprehension of potentials and alternate outcomes it envelops. In the event, there is no doubt. There's no possibility of doubt, because you’re already in a movement you're going to have no choice but to ride out. The event is compulsory. That doesn't mean the outcome is predestined, and that there is no freedom. The coming of the event carries imperatives, but it also carries potential, possibilities for improvisation and change. The freedom we have is to modulate its unfolding, from within that very unfolding, at no reflective distance, in the immediacy of our thinking-feeling of what is happening as it ushers into action. Connecting thinking-feelingly, at no remove from the event, to the aspects of the event that carry potential is a kind of belief. It's what Deleuze called a "belief in this world" – a faith that the world has always more to offer, if only we ride its waves with intensity and technique. This has nothing to do with a belief in a doctrine, or a belief in a representation of the world, certainly not a belief in another world. It's a lived belief in this world, in this world’s richness, its changeability, it’s capacity to offer intensity and surplus-value of life. This is a belief that is one with our active, intensely feeling and thinking participation in the world. So I think more in terms of intensifying that, finding methods, techniques for furthering it. So in that sense, yes, there’s a place for a certain notion of belief, or even of faith. But it’s more a form of intuition than a form of conscious belief in the normal sense. There's no adherence in this kind of belief. You don't believe in, you're in your belief, with every dawning thought and act.