In not a few cases, they will turn out not to lead anywhere. A conceptual line of development has embedded itself in the text which the text was not willing or able to follow through on. This amounts to the discovery of a seed of thought planted in the text that did not fully germinate in it. These germinal thought-lines are not gratuitous. They are necessary contributors to the weave of the text. They are in a certain way affirmed by the text, even though they are not fully assumed by it. They are thought tendencies that the text needs – but that it needs not to follow in order to remain the text the author generally understood it to be. They are thought potential that the text has planted on its own soil, but that needs new soil to flourish. Minoritarian close reading seizes upon these seeds of thought potential. Where might it lead if one of those trajectories were assumed, were fully activated and followed through to their logical conclusion? They lead into new territories of thought, beyond the ken of the text's author him- or herself. Exploring these tendencies is a way of remaining radically faithful to the letter of the text, avoiding the pitfalls of comparison and critique, without being boxed in by it. What occurs, rather than comparison or critique, is an immanent conversion of the text by way of its own thought tendencies. Gilles Deleuze's books on other philosophers are prominent examples of this process of immanent conversion, taking the text where the author couldn't take it, by excess of faithfulness to its texture. This can be seen, for instance, in Deleuze's book on Bergson, where an episode in Bergson's thought in which matter and memory (mind) lose their opposition to one another and place themselves on the same continuum as different degrees of the same variation. Deleuze seizes upon this moment as a germinal tendency, then takes that tendency to its logical conclusion, yielding a Bergson no one before had suspected, different from all other Bergsons, including Bergson's Bergson, but no less Bergsonian for that –on the contrary, all the more so.