It is at the point of the text's and the readers' mutual outdoing that concepts are activated. In SenseLab practice, "activating" concepts means outdoing them in such a way that they fly off from their textual homes and migrate to other modes of activity whose primary medium is not language, thereby crossing the supposed theory/practice divide. The first time the technique was used at Dancing the Virtual (2005), one of the texts we read was William James' "The World of Pure Experience" from Essays in Radical Empiricism (1996). Rather than concentrating on a major concept such as "experience" or "consciousness," the minor concept of "terminus" was chosen. This is a concept that to our knowledge had never been focused upon in the literature on James and radical empiricism as a full-fledged philosophical concept. In James' text, the terminus is the end of a process, as it is present to the process in anticipation. In other words, it is an attractor pole that lies at the limit of a movement, but dynamizes it from within as that which the movement tends toward. Although it exerts a formative force on the process, operating immanently to it, the terminus does not actually exist for the process until it is reached and the process makes done with itself. The terminus is realized by the process and actually exists only as realized by that very movement toward it. The terminus is effectively created by the movement tending toward it, giving it a strange status of future-past. A James different from all other James, including his own, comes with seizing upon the terminus as a tendency. For this terminally reactivated James, the virtual – that which exerts a formative force without being actual – becomes key to theunderstanding of pragmatism (of which radical empiricism is the metaphysical correlate for James). Everything changes when pragmatism is seen to revolve around the formative force of the virtual, rather than the obligation of utility. Everything changes, but nothing so much as our sense of what "practice" means.