What is the "ingredient" of thought-expression that Peirce says comes to the fore when the collection of interlocutors is finite and the reality of signs without utterers or interpreters affirms itself? What can go without an utterer or an interpreter, functioning as "a sort of substitute for them" that fulfills "nearly the same, but more essential, function," at the loose ends of thought-expression? 
	
This essential ingredient, as regards the utterer, is what Peirce calls the "Object" of the sign that constitutes an utterance and enacts an expressive movement of thought through it. This is a peculiar notion of an object. The usual connotations of the word must be bracketted. Here, "object" is really just another word for the meaning or sense of the sign: what the sign "stands for." This standing-for is not to be taken as a synonym for "represent." It must be taken more strongly, as in "take the place of" and even "bear," "carry," or "endure." For rather than being what the sign expresses, the sense/Object of the utterance is actually what goes "necessarily unexpressed in the sign" (Peirce 1998: 407).
	
The sense, Peirce explains, can only come from "a collateral source" (404). It is incumbent in the surrounding situation: the situation itself, not as it is represented in the mind of the utterer or the interpreter. It is precisely for the mind of the individual utterer or interpeter – the interiority of his or her thinking – that the Object functions as a more essential substitute. The idea that sense is sourced in the situation collateral to the sign brings thought out into the environment. In What is Philosophy? Deleuze and Guattari speak of the work of art as "standing up" (Deleuze and Guattari 1994: 164). By this they mean that what it expresses has its own reality, independent of how the work was pictured in the mind of the artist and how it is received in the mind of its audience. What it expresses has the status of a "being of sensation" or a "block of sensation" to which the work gives standing in the world. Suzanne Langer uses the oxymoron "objective feeling" to get at much the same idea about the import of art (Langer 1953: 19-20). All signs "stand for" in the same way that a configuration of signs composing an artwork "stands up." A sign's sense/Object is a being of thought, a block of thinking: an objective contemplation given standing in the world through its utterance.v
	
A "block" of thinking is not a simple unity. It stands for many. Peirce takes the verb as the privileged example for understanding how signs stand, fully aware of the implications this choice has for our understanding of the nature of the sign-process that is thought-expression ("semiosis"). By privileging the verb, Peirce is asserting that semiosis must be approached on the model of the event. A verb, he says, does not designate particular things. It designates a set of "partial objects." These are not in the first instance objects in the everyday sense. They are roles composing the event that the verb stands for. The verb "runs" designates a someone who embodies a running. The verb "gives" designates a someone who proffers, a someone who receives, and a something that passes between them. Both verbs are one word – but stand for more than one, for a some composing the action. Their object is unspecified. In the abstract, there are an infinite number of runners, and an infinite series of givers, giftees, and gifts. But neither verb is ever used in the abstract, in the sense of lacking a surrounding situation, whatever, whenever, or wherever that situation may be. The sense of the utterance is never purely general. It is never the infinity of objects that might answer to it generally, in the abstract. The sense of the utterance is never purely general. It is never the infinity of objects that might answer to it generally, in the abstract. The sense of the utterance is the suggestion that there will be someones or somethings in the situation indicated that embody the roles that the event for which the verb stands is wanting. Precisely which ones those are  unspecified by the verb. The verb’s utterance kick-starts the process of thought-expression by substituting itself for them: it is in the verb’s inability to specify precisely which objects are wanting that its sign-power resides. It leaves them to be determined by the situation. The sign points to their specification. It stands for what actions may come next that leads to their determination. The power of the sign is to determine a process of determination to take place. The process of determination must move collaterally into the situation of the utterance – toward where it points – and supplement the utterance with follow-on actions. Thus, the power of the sign is pragmatic. The essay in which this discussion of Peirce's is found is entitled, simply, "Pragmatism."