Is this not a contradiction? The whole discussion started with the problem that where there is an infinity of utterers and interpreters, the movement of expression comes to a halt, exhausted by the very thought of itself. Yet now we've what-elsed and in-what-mannered our way back to infinity. The difference is that this new infinity at which we have arrived is in no way a purely abstract or ideal infinity. It is infinite "in completed existence" (Peirce 1998: 408). It is a potential infinity that is pragmatically inscribed in the situation. It is an effective infinity, because it does: it demands more seeking; it calls for and enables collateral action.viii It is in no way general, but singularly ingredient to the situation. It is the more-than of the situation. It will never be exhausted, try as we might to seek it out. To avoid exhausting ourselves, at some point we will just have to call it quits. We have to deem our collateral observation sufficient to what is Objectively required by the situation for it to terminate itself, for all pragmatic intents and purposes, so that life may move on to a new situation and expression to a new iteration. 
	
It is important to note that this effective infinity is on the side of the environmentality of the Object, not of the individuality of the subject. It is just as important to bear in mind that it overspills any dual relation, being a question of an always-another in between: a third. This thirdness interposes itself between the subjects involved, over-filling the gaps between their utterances. It is also what is left over and above the finitude of the individual subjects involved in the situation. It is what exceeds them, so that there must be a sign without an utterer or an interpreter – and, substituting for them, something essential for thought's moving-out pragmatically into process. The something essential that may substitute for the individual subject of expression is all that is potentially sought for collaterally. It is the Object of expression that can never be fully expressed, but without which expression would have nowhere to go but into generality. It is the Object as incumbent in the texture of the situation, replete with would-bes: all that is potentially sought for collaterally to "some" up the situation. An all surrounding the some of the sign: the Object become environmental, operating throughout an expanded field. The essential ingredient, the "Object," is what Peirce calls the environmental "form of fact" (Peirce 1998: 408).  It is the all-around of the in-situation, as triangulated by potential.