It is important to note that a slippage has occurred in the Peirce terms of this discussion. The analysis  imperceptibly transitioned from a something more essential that can fulfill the role of the utterer (the Object) to the corresponding something more essential that can fulfill the role of the interpreter: what Peirce calls the interpretant. Technically, the Object is what in-forms the sign's utterance and orients the movement of thought-expression it inaugurates. The Object is what the sign stands-for. The interpretant, for its part, is what the sign stands-toward: this same Object transformed by the action of the sign into a sought-for terminus. The transition occurs at the quaesitum, which is the Object as necessarily sought in the situation. The Object, as that which in-forms the sign and orients the movement of thought-expression it triggers, has the force of an imperative: it necessarily imposes itself on situation at the utterance of the sign. The interpretant is this same imperative turned into a conditional, a would-be: as what, necessarily sought, may be found.ix 
	
The Object and interpretant are strictly complementary. They reciprocally presuppose each other as indissociable aspects of the same process.x They relay other in the quaesitum, which is like a gear-shift mechanism or hinge between their respective modes. They overlap in the quaesitum, allowing for a smooth transition and imperceptible transformation from the mode of the imperative to the conditional. The Object prefigures the interpretant, and the interpretant reprises the Object. They are interwound as inseparable pulses in the playing out of the same tendency to sense-making. It was by virtue of their reciprocal presupposition as indissociable aspects of the process of thought-expression's playing-out that the foregoing discussion was able to segue imperceptibly from the Object to the interpretant. Peirce insists on their logical difference and real distinction, as different aspects. But he also goes out of his way to specify that the interpretant – counter to virtually every secondary interpretation of it in the literature – does not have to be "a modification of consciousness" (Peirce 1998: 411). After all, the would-bes of a situation are as much a part of its reality as the imperatives it harbors. The modification of the consciousness of an individual interpreter is not required. All that is required is "a sufficiently close analogue of a modification of consciousness" (411).