To my knowledge, the Commind occurs in Peirce's implausibly voluminous work exactly once. It is the minorest of all Peircean concepts, the one he left in tendency out of "despair of making my own broader conception understood" (Peirce 1998: 478). To follow through on its tendency is to produce a Peirce more Peircean than Peirce, and hopefully all the more faithful to Peirce for that (in the same way that Deleuze remained faithful to Bergson). This is not just a matter of exegesis of interest to the hermetic society of Peirce hounds. It has tremendous import for the theory of signs and expression, for all of semiotics and all that has come out of it. It turns the normative readings of Peirce that largely informed the construction of late-twentieth-century semiotics on their environmental heads by asserting the absolute necessity of a theory – and a practice – of collective expression. It also underlines the impossibility of representation as a foundational category for thought-expression. The same reasoning that led Peirce to the Commind requires that the interpretant (the sign's fulfilled sense) "does not correspond" to the Object (whose imperative in-forming powers the sense-making process; Peirce 1998: 410). This is because, although they are reciprocally presupposing processual complements that cannot actually be dissociated, the object and the interpretant have different logical status and by virtue of that are really distinct.xi The "defect of correspondence" is rooted in the "essential difference to their natures" (410): the fact that one is in the imperative that coincides with the triggering of the process by the sign (and is thus left in the past by its unfolding), while the other is in the "relatively future tense" of the conditional (410).xii For both of these reasons—Commind and the essential defect of representational theories of the sign—speed dating with the ghost of Peirce is sure to be challengingly mind-bending, and is highly recommended.
	
A final note: it is arbitrary, if instructive, to use parts of speech, such as verbs, in order to model the process of expression, as was done earlier. But of course not every sign is linguistic. A gesture is a nonlinguistic sign. A gesture involves seeings, perhaps touchings, definitely kinesthetic feelings. The interpretant (Commind) "in all cases, includes feelings" along with "something that may vaguely be called 'thought'" (Peirce 1998: 409). Vaguely, because the process of thought-expression Objectively seeks its own would-be fulfillment, which it cannot clearly or distinctly know until it reaches its terminus. However, ninety-nine times out of a hundred (to quote James; 1996: 69) the terminus is not reached, so that the process must continue virtually. Or, it will just have to call it quits in the interests of moving on to a next iteration, across a cesura filled with the resonation of many potential lines of thought jostling each other, vying for self-fulfilling what-elses, plying the continuum between the partial objects that collaterally self-report as partial subjects and whose infinite fusion composes the Commind. This pragmatic seeking-doing is a vaguely thinking-feeling, complexly determined to be determined environmentally, unfolding in the collective, commensal expression that constitutes "actual Experience" (Peirce 1998: 478; emphasis in the original). Actual Experience: the virtual thinking-of-itself of the situation coming pragmatically to expression, self-reporting.