There   is  some   residue.  Perhaps  this  is  akin   to  what   Rupert  Sheldrake, the heterodox biochemist, called  morphic resonance (Sheldrake 1988). Some may consider it a form  of memory physically instantiated within the material, at least seemingly for a time.  Personally, I prefer  to avoid  the  term  memory because of the  cultural baggage it carries;  it is difficult  to know  if this  will  be helpful. [4] However, the  presence of this  residual disposition makes  me wonder if there  is any initial  start  that  I can consider to be an “uncontaminated” origin.  If the plate is vibrating at a certain  frequency and  another is introduced, the two frequencies interact and  through reinforcement and  cancellation produce a whole  new  range of effects. I have  had  the sense  that  when the plate  is hanging quietly and  I turn on the amplifier and  frequency generator that  I am starting anew.  But if the plate has  been  vibrating vigorously and  recently, as  in  the  example above,   this  is clearly  not  the  case.  When  I begin  again  with  a new  frequency, are  the  results that  I obtain  due  to  the  frequency and  time  that  I used  on  the  plate  the  day before?  Perhaps my  activities over  the  course  of several  years  with  this  plate have  long-term residual effects. I assume that  the steel plate  is the same  as when I first  started, but  the  residual effect calls this  assumption into  question. Is this residual effect restricted to the domain of steel plates  vibrating in basement workshops, or  is it of wider applicability? In  other  domains, I am  completely comfortable with  the  properties of  steel  retaining effects  from  its  history:  the blade  of a knife  can  be  tempered and  the  edge  hardened in  the  course  of its making; a shape memory alloy’s shape can be recorded and  erased with temperature;  distorting a metal  may  cause  work  hardening and  accompanying brittleness. Perhaps there  is never  starting anew,  no tabula rasa.  We are always entirely enmeshed in residual effects. There may only be residual effects.