July 25-26 2013
This  was  a  workshop  for  all  Australian  hub  participants  hosted  by  the  National  Institute  for Experimental  Arts,  UNSW  in  Sydney.  The  purpose  of  the  workshop  was to  develop  a  series  of techniques   loosely   structured  around   the   concept   of ‘ minor   practices’ of   listening   and improvisation.  These  techniques  will  become  the  basis  for a  month-long  series  of  events, symposia  and  exhibitions  for  all  participants  in  the Immediations partnership  during  November/December 2014. 9 participants.
Three Mile Meal
Montreal
Aug 23-25 2013
SenseLab produced 3 Mile Meal in collaboration with Boston's Design Centre for Social Intervention (DC4SI), a Community Partner in Immediations. This event was born from a desire to design an event that would bring the larger-frame goals of Immediations into the public sphere, and also to create an event for the community at large that would integrate SenseLab and our aims through Immediations "to the streets". For 3 Mile Meal, SenseLab invited people in three adjacent neighborhoods - Outremont, Mile End and Park Ex - to explore their curiosity about each other through political, artistic, and social means. The event took place over three days at three sites where three versions of bread -challah, dosas, and crepes – were served by SenseLab members and by members of each community. Bicycle-sculptures were present to assist participants in moving from one kitchen to another. 30 participants from SenseLab, 8 from DS4si. 
Anarchival Tracings-1 Australia
Sydney
March 8 2014
Exploration of  affective listening (that is processual listening) in the context of a sound-based anarchive. Preliminary exploration of an ongoing sound issue for the Fibreculture journal (2015-2017). 8 participants.
Anarchiving: Precarity - Minor Planning
Melbourne
April 25-27 2014
This event explored the idea of what a “minor planning” might be—that is, a planning process very much based on process philosophy. We also explored questions around listening (affective listening) and the way in which cultural history comes into process. We spent some time linked to the hub in Montréal and exchanging exercises in processual group organisation. 13 participants.
Anarchiving: Precarity – Urban Fabric