Consciousness is the apex of experience, not its prerequisite. Implicit or subjective certitudes do not take precedence over the experience which produces them. A transcendental critique, such as the Cartesian Cogito, is but a subsidiary plane of experience, one that seeks to explicate or justify the experience from without. But experience is or rather become, in and of itself, a “machinic uncounscious” (Guattari). It is, immediately, that is before the orchestration of a mediating “self,” useless. Experience is not syntagmatic, but excessive and redundant. At the scale or at the incommensurable level of the event, the objective and subjective presuppositions wither, the personological attributes have very low or even zero value. The environment-event perceives and thinks itself out by and for itself. It is an integral. An event, I propose, is an infinite variation of and on itself: an infinite number of in-formations, of proliferating formative forces. An event is not economical, in contradistinction to perception which is an active limiting of the experience, an adjusting or accommodation conducted by the anthropic or non-anthropic principle. It is the event which affords perception by means of its affective tonalities, its atmospheric conditions; not the other way around. This is what I meant by saying that the environment, the field of experience owes its own force of perception. I call it force because of its infinite capacity to connect, to relate with other things and beings tangential to it. The force of perception of the experience lies in its capacity to generate an event that does begin and end with the object-subject tandem, that does not restrict itself to the human subject. For an event is essentially processual, ignorant both of the facts and the essences of stationary philosophies. The vitality of perception cuts across the subjective-objective dichotomy. Lived perception is nothing but a convention, a construction, that is to say the effect, the aftermath of the environment eventing itself. Which is not to say that perception is a determining fact in itself, but no perception is born regardless the tumultuous phases  of experience. The naturality of perception is a thesis that we can barely suscribe to, for like the habits we all catch, like our constructions and aesthetic compositions, it is not naturally given. Perception is a symptom. The pressing question for us remains: how does a relational field of forces create a lived perception? Or: how does the impersonal realm of experience, the undefinable, make perception possible? How does the non-specific create or produce a species subjectivity?