As part  of Inflexions such  a field  cannot appear other  than  through transversal modes of expression.  Inflexions is not  a mere  medium in the  form  of an online journal. On the contrary, it seeks to foreground expression transversally and  in a machinic fashion. It does not communicate content but inflects content and expression  in  continuous  movement  by  injecting   potential  for  new entanglements  with   each   new   engagement.    We  stress   the   importance  of expression and  the problems raised by communicational models to underline the different  registers  under   which    Inflexions   operates.   Inflexions’   modes   of expression always attempt to venture beyond the  simple  accumulation of texts by proposing over-arching themes that  incite others  to generate innovative web- based  material.  It does  not communicate but it expresses and  provides potential for  experience to  emerge transversally.   We  propose a shift  in  terminology to clarify  the importance of a non-communicational, yet transversal, proposition at stake in this issue.   It is Guattari himself  who provides this insight by suggesting that  transversal processes are not  just communicational. Instead of a logic of communication, he foregrounds a logic of intensities: a logic of “auto-referential existential assemblages engaging in irreversible durations”  (Guattari 1995: 30). Here  we  see  a shift  from  the  communicational binary of signal/noise, sender/receiver or message/content towards a more  existential assemblage, that of expression.  Expression activates content in a field  of transversal potential.  It allows   content to  emerge through  a  transversal  milieu.     As  Brian  Massumi writes,  “the force of expression strikes  the body  first, directly and  unmediatedly” (2002: xvii).  In other  words, the experiential engagement with Inflexions, through bodily  modalities of perception, is affected  first  by  expression.   Only  through such  an expressive and  perceptual shock  content can emerge, always anew  and transversally.  Content and  expression are as consubstantial as signal  and  noise. When  an  expression contracts into  potential content, such  content functions as shadow-images for the field through which  a new  experience emerges by dint  of another expression. What happens in these content-expression-contractions is the emergence  of  the   transversal  forces   of  a  field   of  experience  that   become malleable.   “Where expression stretches, potential  determinately  emerges into