with  any  other  piece  to  create  garments or  environments of  the  participant’s making.  Phase   1  tends   toward  surface   folds,   layerings  that   are   thin   and sediment-like, though the magnets’ inherent attraction to multiple stickings does create  a complexity of folding that  already tends  toward volumetric bunching. Phase  2, entitled Volumetrics, connects to Phase  1 but  is based  more  specifically on the idea of volumes, generative of foldings that are thick and  bunched. Where Phase  1 plays  with  colour,  the fabrics chosen  for their  chromatic weaves, Phase  2 is black,  the  emphasis on textural subtleties. Phase  2, is not  cut  from  conceived patterns that,  in their  shape,  already call forth  garment-potential. Volumetrics is thought as a supplement to Phase 1 that thickens the sediment, building out from under its  interweaving  layers.   Each  piece  is  more-or-less  a  rectangle and   is comprised of button-holes with  elasticized string  pulled through them,  multiple magnets, snaps  and  zippers. With Volumetrics, the flatness  of the body-surface is put  into  question, as  is the  idea  that  a garment layers  directly on  the  human frame.   To  play   with   Volumetrics,  toggles   are  pulled  or  loosened  along   the elasticized string,  or gotten rid  of altogether, zippers are  opened or closed,  and snaps  are  multiply connected on  a single  piece  of fabric  or  across  pieces.  The emphasis in Phase  2 is on  the  ontogenetic qualities of shaping: Volumetrics is a machine for  creating volumes. Each  piece  of  Volumetrics  also  has  one  button, thought as an invitation to couple  with  Slow Clothes – although of course  each of the  button-holes housing the  elastic  string  is itself  an  occasion  to  connect  and fold,  as are the  magnets. Slow Clothes and  Volumetrics are conceived as Choreographic  Objects   for  the   exploration  of  what   a  body   can   do   at  the productive interval between dressing and  architecting” in Erin Manning, Choreography as Mobile Architecture (Keynote,  SEAM 2009).