The documentation in this issue of Society of Molecules makes apparent how differently each molecule responded to the problematic of creating a distributed ethico­aesthetic political event. Each molecule was asked to engage directly with local concerns. One of our techniques was to not seek to create a content­based continuity between the molecules. This meant that we were also expecting to know little about the subtle differences between molecular undertakings in say, Sydney, Australia,
and Naples, Italy. But we also did not want each molecule to function completely separately. So we had to come up with a technique to keep them affectively connected. With 15 molecules in 9 countries and 14 cities, the challenge was to develop a technique which would allow the molecules to resonate across local spacetimes without requiring their coming­together to be based on their singularly local content. Our experience from  past events is that content is not easily translatable and generally loses its affective intensity in the primarily language­based mutation from  one locale or event to another. The techniques we invented therefore had to be focused on affective linkages. As with all techniques, some were more immediately successful than others. For instance, each molecule had an emissary they sent to another molecule, either actually or virtually. This really worked, I think: it generated excitement in a 3­way network (since all molecules received and sent an
emissary). Another technique was for the emissary to leave a seed behind
and then, post­event, each molecule was asked to document the growth of that seed. It may be too early to tell, but my sense is that in many cases, this technique was too distanced from  the affective tenor of the event
and so may have lost its potential force. Documenting the seeding process was meant to offer a method for pursuing local molecular interventions by bringing the molecule back together post­event in a way that connected to other molecular processes. The seed was thought as a kind of affordance for the transmutation of one molecular process into another. We were looking for a technique that would propose a form  of communication that did not evolve through the description of a past event but instead engaged with an ongoing process that was fed by an existing collaborative project. Our  hope was that this documenting process would subtly  call forth  aspects of the molecular interventions – we’ll see how it evolves.