concerns were as micropolitically oriented as they were macropolitically inclined. For instance, they became concerned with environmental issues that cross different communities in different ways. These are issues that have macropolitical effects – they bring with them global environmental consequences as well as national ones that in turn  affect the governance of different milieus of Aboriginal culture. They are micropolitical because they emerge from  the milieu. They become macropolitical when, for instance, they bring forth  new laws at the national level that effect the governance of communities and territories. Take mining, for instance. Criticism has been voiced that in view of new mining operations
Aboriginal “Dreamings” (Jukurrpa) have had a tendency to “spring up”
that weren’t considered constitutive to a particular aboriginal community. The Dreaming here refers in part to a spiritual ancestor who resides within specific landscape affordances. To talk of these Dreamings as though
they could be owned by certain groups at the expense of others is to misunderstand the strong rhizomatic quality of Aboriginal culture where land does not stand­in for parsed­out territory. Although Aboriginal communities do have direct influence over very specific sites (and/as Dreamings) these Dreamings can only exist in a network of emergence that gives life to the present of collective becoming across groupings. To take over a part of land as though it were not in some way connected to another is to cut across a system of life. This of course has both micro and macropolitical consequences. In the case of holding back transnational mining projects it may affect both the national position in a global market and in that sense effect macropolitical change. On  the local level, the funds used by mining might have been mobilized for community projects that could have given the community a certain independence. Either way, the convergence of macro and micropolitics instantiates new debates about land ownership and territoriality that in turn  in some sense alter the field of the political. This is what I mean by the macro always being infested by micropolitical effects.