The visible patch  betrays the autonomy of the relation from which it arose, even as it expresses it.xiii Its durability as a sign lends the memory-color to further investigation aimed at making the mismatch a recognizable content of the experimental context, attributable to an isolatable ingredient of it, in the person of the experimentee. The singularity falls captive to its sign. It is committed to the sign’s duration and manipulability. The singularity is encapsulated, captured, grounded in its redounding sign, its terminal. It will no longer surprise in this or similar contexts. It will cease by degrees to be a singularity, as investigations proceed. Its terminal patching into this context will be countervailed in a certain way by its description. Description defines the singularity in a way that enables it to be inserted into contexts it likewise defines--defines as like contexts. The linguistic sign ungrounds the singularity, without unencapsulating it. Mobility returns to the experience, but at the price of the singularity being regrounded at another level. On that level, patched into phonemes and graphemes, it is converted into a generality of context (an intercontextual element) conveyed in discourse. The terminated experience attains an after-life in standardized word-usage. It is transmitted as a conventional, shareable meaning, a common property of the contexts it enters and of the community of language users populating them.xiv At each usage, it will say its name. What in the emergent sign was a self-extinguishing singularity has, in its posthumous sign, settled into a redundancy. The peculiarity has passed: from surprise to currency. The experience will return to its peculiarity (its vivacity will return to it) only if it withdraws, ever so fleetingly, from its signs; only if it falls, even for an immeasurably slender moment, out of actual discourse; only if it recoils into potential, disappearing into the gap between contexts, leaping, unforeseen all over again, into a new context: only if it re-situates itself. Singularity goes on again, but its on-going is gapped. The continuity of singularity runs, potentially, through actual discontinuities of context.