II.
Another story, about the brain: the mystery of the missing half-second.
Experiments were performed on patients who had been implanted with cortical electrodes for medical purposes. Mild electrical pulses were administered to the electrode and also to points on the skin. In either case, the stimulation was felt only if it lasted more than half a second: half a second, the minimum perceivable lapse. If the cortical electrode was fired a half second before the skin was stimulated, patients reported feeling the skin pulse first. The researcher speculated that sensation involves a “backward referral in time” – in other words, that sensation is organized recursively before being linearized, before it is redirected outwardly to take its part in a conscious chain of actions and reactions. Brain and skin form a resonating vessel. Stimulation turns inward, is folded into the body, except that there is no inside for it to be in, because the body is radically open, absorbing impulses quicker than they can be perceived, and because the entire vibratory event is unconscious, out of mind. Its anomaly is smoothed over retrospectively to fit conscious requirements of continuity and linear causality.v
What happens during the missing half second? A second experiment gave some hints.
Brain waves of healthy volunteers were monitored by an electroencephograph (EEG) machine. The subjects were asked to flex a finger at a moment of their choosing, and to note the time of their decision on a clock. The flexes came 0.2 seconds after they clocked the decision. But the EEG machine registered significant brain activity 0.3 seconds before the decision. Again, a half second lapse between the beginning of a bodily event and its completion in an outwardly directed, active expression. 
Asked to speculate on what implications all this might have for a doctrine of free will, the researcher, Benjamin Libet, “proposes that we may exert free will not by initiating intentions but by vetoing, acceding or otherwise responding to them after they arise.”