Along came a third, mutant wing that saw this quarrel as little better than the Swiftian controversy between whether it is better to spoon the egg out of the narrow end or the wide end. Why can't they see that it's best to break it in the middle? Recent theories privileging notions of hybridity, bordering and border culture, and queering aim to defuse the chicken and the egg scenario by valorizing the in-between. The ultimate aim is to find a place for change again, for social innovation, which had been squeezed out of the nest by the pincer movement of the needful or reasonable determination of a legislative norm on one side, and topographical determination by a constitutive positionality on the other. But to the extent that the in-between is conceived as a space of interaction of already-constituted individuals and societies, middle-feeders end up back on the positional map. The tendency is to describe the in-between as a blending or parody of the always-already positioned. Social change is spatially relegated to precarious geographical margins, where unauthorized positional permutations bubble up from the fermenting mixture. Even more precariously, in the case of theories of subjectivity as performance, change is confined to sites whose "marginality" is defined less by location than the evanescence of a momentary parodic rupture or "subversion." How the subversion could react back on the positionalities of departure in a way that might enduringly change them becomes an insoluble problem. Concepts of mixture, margin and parody retain a necessary reference to the pure, the central, and the straight-laced and straight-faced, without which they vaporize into logical indeterminacy. Erase the progenitors, and the hybrid vanishes: no terms have been provided with which to understand it in its own right. The middle wing ends upon the same plate as the others: determination. When everything is served up in founding terms of determination--"of" or "by"--by design or by default--change can only be understood as a negation of the determination: as the simply indeterminate. This dilemma haunts all three wings in different ways, and its valorization is characteristic of postmodern celebrations of aporia.
	
Similar conundrums haunt other oppositional pairings contemporary theorists try to think with or around: body and culture, community and state, East and West.I would like to suggest that there may be another approach, close in many ways to the mutant third wing of the hybrid, but mutated again, with a different philosophical twist--away from determination. From one point of view, the weakness I pointed to in theories of performance is a strength. Articulating change in a way that retains a necessary reference to the already-constituted preserves a crucial role for formations of power, and marks a refusal of spontaneism or voluntarism. The problem arises when no way is provided to conceptualize the in-between as having a logical consistency, and even ontological status, of its own. The necessary connection to the already-constituted then becomes a filiative dependence to which the "subversion" must continually return in order to re-engender itself. The foundation eternally returns.