The players, in the heat of the game, are drawn out of themselves. Any player who is conscious of himself as he kicks, misses. Self-consciousness is a negative condition of the play. The players' reflective sense of themselves as subjects is a source of interference that must be minimized for the play to channel smoothly. When a player readies a kick, she is not looking at the ball so much as she is looking past it. She is reflexively (rather than reflectively) assessing the potential movement of the ball. This involves an instantaneous calculation of the positions of all the players of the field in relation to each other and in relation to the ball and both goals. This is by nature a vague perception more than a conscious calculation, because there are too many terms to be reflectively processed, and each term is a variable rather than a constant. Since the players are in perpetual motion, their relation to each other, the ball, and the goals is also in constant flux, too complex to measure, only registerable as heightenings and releases of eddies of intensity in the midst of which openings for the potential movement of the ball appear. The player must let his trained body synthesize his separate perceptual impressions into a global sense of the intensity. The sensing of the intensity, will be vague but goal-directed in such a way as to draw a maximally exact reflex expression from him. He looks past the ball--directly sensing the potential as such, as an immeasurable but actionable degree of intensity affecting the polar continuum of the field. The player must pare himself down to a channeling of the play. The player's subjectivity is disconnected, as he enters the field of potential in and as its sensation. For the play, the player is that sensation. The sensation is a channeling of field-potential into local action, from which it is again transduced into a global reconfiguration of the field of potential. Sensation is the mode in which potential is present in the perceiving body. The player does not play on the ground. He looks past it and past the ball, to the field of potential--which is insubstantial, real but abstract. He plays the field of potential directly.