The capture and containment is not simply negative. Its very transcendence becomes a productive element in the mix whose effect is the field of immanence. The rules becomes an integral part of the play, without ceasing to be a transcendent intervention. Just as in reflex language becomes body, in play transcendence as such becomes-immanent. It circuits into immanence. The rules are a preservative organ of the field of play. They are the condition of the play's identity across its serial repetitions in disparate times and places. The positivity of the rules is in preservation. This is also, precisely, their negativity. Codifying capture cuts both ways. Negatively, it stops and contains variation. Positively, it preserves the game for repetition. If the game were not repeated, variation would never have a chance to restart. No occasion would arise for variation to reassert itself. From one point of view (the rule-makers' and referees') variation is a departure from identity. From another point of view, identity is a moment (a productive lapse) in the continuation of variation. The second point of view is the creative, or aesthetic. Except that the creative is not a point of view. It is not a perspective on the game, or on anything. It is amidst. A dynamic midst. The being of the collective middle: belonging in becoming. Perspective is the sign of a separation from change. It is a mark of codifying capture: a demarcation of the space of interruption. A perspective is an anti-event-space. In the same way as transcendence becomes a productive element of the mix to immanence, the anti-event-space of perspective becomes a productive element of the event-space. The ground includes the viewpoints on it. Officially speaking, what would a soccer field be without a referee? Unofficial. The inclusion of that anti-event-space in the event-space not only allows particular moves in the game to be qualified as to type (attributed intrinsic properties of fairness or foulness common to any number of other moves). It typifies the game as a whole: as "official," as in conformity. The anti-event-space is the injection of generality into the particularity of the game, with which it channels into the singularity of the play (the game as such, this game ... an event). The history of the game operates, through codification, between the level of the general and the level of the particular. The game's becoming is the transductive conversion of the general-particular (the historical) into what it is not (singular). In general, nothing happens. In particular, things are typically about to happen or have already happened (fair or foul, win or loss). Happening is singularly outside "such" as "this," model and type, above, around, between. In the making, in the midst, in the indeterminacy of outcome.