There is a constant communication between and co-functioning of power formations which operate predominantly through accumulation and regularization, and those which operate through application and regulation. Broadly, power formations of the regulatory kind are Static--State, proto-State and State-like formations. The Static is defined by the separation of a dedicated institution of application: a specialized bureacracy whose judgments folds back down upon the event-space from which it has emerged and diverged, and to which it belongs, in an operation of transcendence. The temptation is to call power formations having to do with regularization social or cultural, since they have no dedicated bureacracy, other than the State in the narrow sense. But it is self-evident that the "social" or "cultural" do not coincide with the field of regulatory application of the State, even though they cannot be separated from it. That is precisely point; that is precisely why they require separate appelation and analysis. The "social" and the "cultural" leak from State regulation on every side. There are transnational and pre-national cultures, just as there are sub-State social fields, often officially recognized by the State as beyond its purview (the "personal" and "private"). Their official recognition amounts to a partial--indirect or negative--regulation. For example, negatively, domestic violence may occasion State intervention. Violence, or any interruption of smoothly patterned social functioning, provides the opening into which the State can insert itself into spaces formally defined as non-Static (Foucault's disciplinary power). Positively, the State can help induce the emergence of smoothly patterned social functioning in State-friendly forms, for example through civil marriage, pro-family policy, and health and welfare measures (Foucault's biopower). But caring cannot be legislated. Effective expressions of the positivity of belonging elude the State. This is why the State, like any regulatory apparatus, follows that which it regulates. Its applications are always retrospective, sniffing out and running after feral belongings it must attempt to recoup, to rechannel into State-friendly patterns. The Static is incapable of perceiving the distinction between an infraction of its rules, and the emergence of a new belonging, a new field of potential. It only knows the negative. It can only construe change negatively, as a prospective transgression of the regulations it will, by right, impose. The Static is by nature reactive ("static" also in the sense of favoring stasis, changing only in response to an outside it can only perceive as an impingement on itself, or as a perturbation). Like sports style, "social" or "cultural" emergence is against the rules--without having broken them. Complicating things further, if the "social" and "cultural" elude the Static, the Static for its part is a component element of the "social" and "cultural." Its transcendence folds back down on them, becomes-immanent to them. A bureaucracy participates in catalyzing the social or cultural. Furthermore, every bureaucracy has a culture specific to it: its separation from that to which it becomes-immanent constitutes it as a mini-society. 
	
There is an entirely different level of complication to calling event-spaces "social" or "cultural." As event-spaces bifurcate into the regularizing and the regulatory, the event-dimension undergoes a different but associated split. The event-dimension bifurcates into two subdimensions.