2) Media transmission involves another subdimension of the event, interlinking with and inseparable from event-self-referentiality. This is the dimension of event-transitivity.  The transitivity of the event is also proliferating. But it is a proliferation that crosses a qualitative threshold. When the event passes from the stadium to the home, piggy-backed on televisual images, it changes in nature. Whereas self-referentiality has to do with reproduction, event-transitivity has to do with differentiation. In transformational transit, the event returns to its becoming, as pure immanence. The interval of transmission is thus very different from the interruption of regulation. In the media interval, the event is a material but incorporeal immanence (an electron flow) moving through a dedicated technological milieu. When it is analogically reexpressed in televisual images, its conditions have drastically changed. Its substantial elements have been homogenized and reduced, to fit sound speaker and screen. The event's ability to trigger a catalytic effect is no longer certain. It is no longer necessarily a part-subject, but must be assisted in that role. Its catalysis must be catalyzed. "Nothing" is ever on TV. It is rarely "interesting." In the new event-space, distraction is more catalytically operational than interest. Television is not predominantly perspectival, as the old catchphrase "window on the world" would have it. What is analogically rendered on screen is only a fraction of the operative event-space--which includes the content of the home, as well as the screen and its content. The home, however, is less a container than a membrane: a filter of exteriorities continually entering and traversing it. Television is more about delivery into a more-or-less open milieu than it is about the perspective of one closed space onto another, or of a closed space onto an open space. The collective expressions occuring in the porosity of the domestic space, including the television as one humble element in a complex and loosely integrated mix, are highly variable. However, the variability and porosity, the fact that the TV-hosting home is not a container, should not be construed to mean that the events regularly triggered with televisual participation are not containment events and that the home is not a formation of power. Containment has more to do with the patterning of exits and entries across thresholds than with the impermeability of boundaries. This is as true for the regulation of codified event-spaces as for spaces characterized by coding. What is pertinent about an event-space is not its boundedness, but what elements it lets pass, according to what criteria, at what rate, and to what effect. These variables define a regime of passage. Self-reference through application, or through regulation by a transcendent formation, can assure a stricter regime of passage (more selective openness). The around-the-clock access to the home by communicational technologies (mail delivery, telephone and answering machine, fax, Internet, radio, TV) opens wide its codings to high-volume and highly random passage, of signs if not of human bodies. In spite of the locks on the door, the event-space of the home must be seen as one characterized by a very loose regime of passage. As a regime of openness to sign circulation, to the delivery, absorption, and relay of sounds, words, and visions--the home is a node in a circulatory network of many dimensions (each corresponding to a technology of transmission). Awash in transitivity. The home is a node in an indefinitely extended field of immanence, to which the technologies of transmission give body (provide a dedicated event-space). That technologized field of immanence is punctuated by formations of transcendence (generalities, perspectives; State, proto-State, and State-like formations). But they do not effectively regulate it. Rather, the network distributes (effectively connects) the transcendences. Formations of transcendence are also nodes, encompassed by a technologically body-doubled field of immanence that by nature eludes their rule (however hard they might try at times to tame it--communicational deregulation is still the governmental name of the game).