Up to now, the account has scrupulously avoided any use of these words not preceded by a "part-." However, their undying popularity demands that they be accounted for. In the present context, the best way to begin is with the body, which has repeatedly come up as a channeller. What might a body be? It is not a thing in the sense of a self-enclosed substance. Delve into it far enough, and you reach the infinite vacuum expanses between and within atomic particles. Look at its outwardness, its actions or expressive movements, and you would have to say that its effective boundaries extend beyond its skin, that they extend, in fact, as far as its expressions do. The expressive extent of the body forms an abstract corporeal envelope of indefinite contour--all the more indefinite the farther into the "age of communications" the body wanders. Go in or out, and what you find are variations on empirical emptiness. Nothing with the solidity of a self-enclosed, self-same substance. The solidity of the body is in the middle. The "solidity" is nothing more than the regularity of the body's presentations to another body. It is an interaction effect. It is a self-ordering arising from the iteration of a perceptual in-between. What accounts for the iteration? That fact that both the perceiving body and the perceived body are themselves iterated interactions. A body is layered: roughly, from the subatomic to the atomic to the molecular to the intracelluar to the cellular to the intercellular to the inter-organismic. The levels are not spatially distinguished. Any region of the body participates in every level. They are processually distinguished. The levels are dimensions of processuality that traverse every region. The processes concerned are periodic: from the orbits of electrons to hunger to circadian rhythms to rutting. The periodicity of a processual level makes it regularly accessible to interaction with another level. The body's "solidity" is entirely relational. It is an interlocking of processual periodicities, in such a way as to be mutually sustaining. The levels co-condition one another. There is no substantial ground upon which they stand. They float between the quantum vacuum and corporeal abstraction, suspended in existence by their interactive embrace of one another. A body, alone, is collectively self-standing. Bodies are group  floats. Waftings of periodic embrace. They have the "substance" of a rhythm. The same could be said of "things," with adjustments. Bodies, body-levels, and things perceive themselves into existence (Deleuze, following Leibniz, calls this process "prehension"[1988: 105-108; in Whitehead's vocabulary, it is "concrescence"). The perception of a body by another body, or of levels of the same body by each other, is a perception of perception, being-in-between in-betweens. That self-standing doubling over of in-betweenness on itself is the immanence of sensation. It is the sensation of the periodicity of interaction--of its ordering or regularity--that enters language as "substance."