"Subject" and "object" are not only useful, they are carriers of actual perception-effects. They are linguistic markers of a spontaneously occurring polarization of the perceptual field. That polarization is the self-organizing inclusion of perspective, the unmotivated inclusion of the proto- general in the singularity of the event. "Subject" and "object" are useful to the extent that they mark the insertion point of the general-particular into the singular, because that inclusion is the operative condition of the Static--of regulatory power, which is in turn an evolutionary condition of the emergence of capitalist power (to which it is not only not reducible, but from whose conditioning it is not entirely impossible that it may at some future conjuncture escape). The problem is that "subject" and "object" mark the insertion point ever so vaguely. In a general-particular sort of way. So if it is necessary for theoretical writing to deploy "subject," "object," and "agency" in some way or another (although perhaps not as ponderously as been the vogue), it is crucial not to forget what process they are elements of. What process they are elements of is far more important than what they "mean." "Cultural" and "social" forget not to forget. Their shiftiness all too easily makes them sowers, rather than showers, of the perception-effect of the general.
	
"Part-subject" and "part-object" are reminders. They are attempts to straddle the distance between "subject"-"object" and the relational interval, the ontological hyphenation of which they are hypostasized derivatives. The double "part-" should not be read as designating incompleteness, but rather a reciprocal participation. The "-subject" and "-object" are two sides of the same "parting-". They are signs for elements of a coming-together that is also a parting of the ways. They index processual elements. The processual elements they index are field polarities: regions of relationality that are in asymmetrical embrace of each other (but, once substantialized and linguistically shifted, significantly diverge from each other). A material asymmetry, as a processual departure point, is a potential. "Part-subject" and "part-object" are modest and not terribly felicitous theoretical attempts to embed perception-effects of potential in language. At the same time, they index intermixing bodies or things as substantializable ("physical" or "empirical") elements. The substantializable elements double the processual elements. In this vocabulary, that is what a body is: a doubling of a process. The corporeality of the body in this account is a reciprocity (albeit constitutively unbalanced). The corporeal is an associated processual milieu of an incorporeal process. The immateriality of Spirit or mind or agency propels bodies. It is at the origination of a movement, its causative principle. The incorporeal, by contrast, accompanies the self-standing of the corporeal. It comes along when the self-standing perception that is the body, is perceived by a partible self-standing--a similarly self-standing perception poised to depart following its own rhythms. The incorporeal comes along as the event of the unbalanced coming-together of a part-subject and part-object, as a poising-for-divergence.