A periodic body in its own right is as much an event-space as a regularized intermixing of bodies, as a state of things or situation like the home or the stadium. The kind of event-frame a body may be is highly variable, and is internally differentiated. It is always proto-objective, a part-object. It may also be an event channeler. As a channeler, it may be conductive (for example, the wire transmitting events folded into electronic immanence). In complex situations, especially those including language elements functioning performatively, the channeler can be transductive (part- or proto-subjective). It is as a catalyzer, as a channeler of events effecting from the bringing-together of a wide range of heterogeneous elements, that bodies are most "interesting" for cultural theory. In their complexity, such catalytic bringings-together, however regular or regulated their periodicity, always bring out a residue of uniqueness that is uncontainable either by the Static or by language. It is these expressions that are the pulse of any "cultural" theory aiming for a reconversion to becoming. To effect their perception, to make them at all sensible, it is necessary to take the situation, the intermixing of heterogeneous elements, as the basic unit of analysis. Theorizations starting from "the" body or "the" subject (most current cultural theory), or from "the" thing (phenomenology), or from "the" object (empirical methodologies) miss the situation. From "subjects," "things," and "objects" you get substantializations or idealizations-in-spite of themselves. Once you start down that track, not even by adding terms together and mixing vigorously will you get an expressive situation in its intervallic fullness. You have to "part-" to bring a situation together ("break things asunder," Foucault used to say). You have to find devices for making sensible the incorporeality of the corporeal. You need to start with a logic of relation. To comprehend situation, you need to prehend sensation.