Another example of symbiotic supplementation is the State. The State is a capture of multicellular human organisms that attempts (against earlier and other modes of collective indivuation) to hold them separately together (as "subjects"--the terminological echo is no coincidence [Dean and Massumi; Massumi 1992]--or "citizens"), in mutual dependence on their new composition. The emergence of the State retains the semi-autonomy of its sub-individuals, while working to divest them of their ability to survive in non-State collective individuations. The State, unlike "society" or "culture," has a body: a bureacracy. Bodies are of many kinds. The body that is a bureaucracy has any number of heterogenous elements holding together in a variety of ways (guns, buildings, law and rule books, signs of all types, employees ...). The body of the State is a dispersed body, but a body nonetheless. The rhythms of its elements' holding together (from census to taxation to election cycles) assure it periodic access to the subindividuals it needs for its own metabolism and meiosis. Also unlike a "society" or "culture," a State can manage to enter into extrinsic relation, as an already-constituted substantialized term, with another State, thanks to the regulated diverging-together of the bodily frames of the States concerned. A specialized sub-body is authorized, by specific regulation, to self-stand for the other sub-bodies and levels with which it is in symbiosis: part- for fractal "whole." This is a special, highly regulated, case of part-to-part additivity: "representation" (which is always an operation of the multiple, occuring between at least two collectivities). The specialized sub-body for extrinsic relations, of course, is the diplomatic corps. Diplomacy, it is well known, is an event-space where negotiating style is crucial and performative use of language is rife. This recalls a crucial point: the body of the State is not the State. It is the double of the State. (The State is an applied incorporeal event, or "Idea" [Dean and Massumi].) It is only apparently that a State has extrinsic relations with another State.