A third example is "relationships" in the everyday sense. A diverging-together with a sexual component between two individuals is also only apparently a relationship between extrinsic, already-constituted substantial terms, personal whole to personal whole. A relationship is much more than that. It is a creation, the creation of a new collective individuation, a becoming (in addition to being a stereotypically domestic containment that residualizes becoming). "Sexuality" is the name commonly given to the step-down to the part- level through which the more-or-less residual becoming of a  relationship is channeled. It is "sexual" in the extended use of the term that is common to much cultural theory after Freud: the sense in which even the most subtle part- connection between any body parts-, including the eyes, may modulate a global field of potential that is the be-coming-together of the bodies occupying the complexly dispersed event-space of "love" or "passion" or "devotion." The notion of the fetish--freed from its anchoring-through-displacement to genital parts--conceptually effects the step-down. A fetish is a movement: a connective movement that joins a part-subject to a part-object, or more complexly a part-subject to another part-subject, in a way that channels events of belonging. The "fetish" is a transducer. The belongings it channels are highly variable depending on which parts- are involved, and particularly if they are human body parts- or extended body parts- ("things" like dildos and shoes, or "substances" like leather). The globality of the "relationship" (its field of immanence) is at play--and at stake--to a greater or lesser degree in every local movement of fetish-connection within the framing event-space (which is why Deleuze and Guattari will say, using domesticated heterosexuality as an example, that couples are continually rehearsing their break-up, as the internal limit of the relationship [CITE]). "Friendship," for its part, is a sexual relationship channeled primarily through the coyness of the eyes and the garrulousness of the tongue. But in every case, however "chaste" the friendship or single-minded the fetishism, mutually attractive part-subjects and part-objects governing any number of asymmetric fields of potential are operative, to varying degrees in different ways, by the legion. Love is a crowd phenomenon. All relationship is group sex, involving individuals within individuals, fields intersecting fields, sensation upon sensation, fractalized and multiplied. Sexualities. It is not only in the genealogy of species that "sexual difference" pertains first and foremost to the differentiation of populations. In the everyday as well, "sexual difference" is a derivative of the multiple. It is only under certain conditions of containment imposed through specific exercises of regularizing and regulatory power that the multiplicity of sexualities converts into a binary distinction applied to persons as a whole, that it diverges into an oppositional difference caught in a dialectic-without-synthesis of sameness and otherness (gender: the personification of containment). It is only on this divergent level of personified containment that the distinction between "sex" and "gender"--as well as that between "nature" and "culture"--is operative [Deleuze and Guattari analyze this process in terms of "faciality," which they also see as governing racial difference CITE]. Sexuality is neither "human nature" nor a "social construction." It is a situated holding-together, in a mutually intensifying manner, of disparate sensations. The sensations whose bundling constitutes sexuality come between bodies-together. They come from the potentializing-and-containing mixture of elements of all general-particular persuasions--"natural" and "cultural," talkative and mute--as eventfully in-channeled to a shared plane of immanence of most singular expression.