The tension between these tendential poles, both of which have global reach and transect both the State and capital, delimit the current field of potential of the "human." The poles of the cyborg and the divine are the internal limits of "humanity" (in other periods the poles of the human have been the animal and the divine). "Immanent outside limits" would be a better way of putting it than "internal," because the "limits" are processual thresholds. They are "immanent" to the process without being present in it, in that they govern its constitutive tendencies as attractors. Attractors are most simply understood on the model of magnetic poles, which, a technical dictionary informs us, "cannot exist" but are "deduced from the direction" of charged movements within a field, the globality of whose material conditions the polarity expresses in terms of potential [Chambers]. At the same time as marking abstract (incorporeal) limits, the poles anticipate empirical points at which the process in question changes in nature. Upon arrival at such a point, the movement passes "out," takes leave of itself as a function of its own polarized field-impulsion. Trudge to true south, and when you get there the needle of the compass that has guided you away from any northerly direction spins. You have reached the limit of your direction. The substantial point corresponding to (doubling) the event of reaching the polar limit is not itself charged. It is a zero-degree intensity of the charged field. That zero-degree intensity is itself an event. The magnetic pole is subject to unpredictable variation that cannot be characterized as directional, since directionality hinges on it. The incorporeal polar variation is the event of direction itself, the event conditioning directional events within the field of which it is an immanent outside limit. The true south found by the next expedition will not correspond to the same substantial point. There is more than one flag at the "south pole" and, embarrassingly, they are not in the same place. Once you plant your particular flag, there is nothing left to do but fold back on your own movement: from there, all paths lead north. Each potential folding-back, however, leads to a different north. Each potential trajectory has a different end-point, and passes through a unique set of intermediate points. From the first step, south, east and west begin to redifferentiate. The turn-around at the limit envelops a whole world of redifferentiating potential movement in the simplicity of a polar inflection. The passage across the threshold of the nonexistent polar limit makes a whole world of existential reference disappear, then reappear  with a different valency, having undergone a qualitative change. There is a world of difference between arriving and returning, even if the abstract directional frame of the movements remains the same (the formal definition of north, south, east, and west as reciprocally determining vectors of divergence). A pole of potential is a virtual point of reference confering a value on an extra-directional inflection [on virtual reference points as enveloping worlds or "universes" of value, see Guattari].