The logical order of emergence is oddly spliced: from the general-singular to becoming-particular. It is the ultimate power of langauge to splice specters to life out of its own thin air: to make fiction transpire, to short-circuit the distinction between fiction and fabulation.
	
The seeding of the actual with language-borne germs of evolution involves a special kind of generality. Normally, the general and the particular go together, as two-sides of the same operation on singularity, ending in linguistic blockage, the capture of singularity in an endless dialectical loop. Here, the general and the singular go together, and the particular emerges from their embrace as a substantial creation. The kind of generality that goes together with the singular deserves a different name: call it the generic. Or more tellingly, the singular-generic. The singular-generic is a virtual pole doubled by a sign-body that envelops unexpressed tendencies and deposits them--still unexpressed, as only the vaguest of echos of the future--into sensation. From sensation, they seed the actual. This is a reverse expedition. It is as if the pole held rolled up within it all movements toward it, all displaced arrivals at it, all directionality it might guide, all charged movement in the field it might govern, all potential it might trigger--before any of it ever happened. Rolled up in the sign-body is a virtual map of an entire field of potential, and rolled up into that is the substantiality of an event-space, or perhaps an entire world, complete with flag-bearing explorers. The pole is pure unexpressed force. The signing of the pole is the forced emergence of a pure event, from a phase prior to empirical mixture, prior even to its own happening. The singular-generic is a whole world outside-in. Pure immanence in language. A sown singular-generic is spoken into being as an incipient event. Language has an invocational power capable of calling forth abstract realms populated by spectral beings, as by alchemical formula or shamanistic spell.