Most likely a State or State-like formation. Say "Israeli." The individuals apt to serve as a host population for the "coming community" [Agamben] are already-constituted negatively by State-condoned or State-directed violence--as a general class of victims. German victimization of the Jews, following the Nazi refoundation of the German nation, catalyzed the formation of the State of Israel after the war, when the full extent of the Nazi extermination drive became widely known. Survivors of the Holocaust donated their bodies to the composition of an event-space they could call their own, and call their own into, as a protective envelope. Now say "Palestinian." The formation of the State of Israel catalyzed the formation of the Palestinian proto-State. This is in no way meant to equate or even compare the violence of the Holocaust with the violence of the Israeli State against the Palestinians. It is meant to illustrate how the language-borne short-circuit of becoming performatively unfolds into an evolution bearing multiple histories. The call to community makes the class of victims self-standing. It changes their sign, from a negativity to a positivity. It does this by interpellating the vicitimized bodies not as victims, but as survivors. It interpellates them through the effect of the victimization as it still lives within them, and they live with it: the trauma and the memory, whether first-hand or transmitted. The accumulated sensations remain ineradicably in the body. The invocation of a haven and homeland bundles the sensations together into prospective whole: a bounded space of well-being where the survivors will cease to be survivors, and start to live all over again, to live a life defined by their positive capacity to protect and sustain themselves for a common future rather than by the negation applied to them in the past by the State. They become a self-standing population whose collective event-space is grounded by the national boundary markers, but whose corporeality, or dynamic abstraction, continues to be conditioned by the positively converted victimization, translated into a linear history leading to liberation and foundation. This positivization of victimation, this conversion of violence and death into more life, materializes out of the thin air of language. It first takes shape as an amorphous struggle, a tension in a force-field whose self-recursive evolutionary drift is subsequently linearly expressed in the history of the foundation.