Now there’s a bind: a “body artist” who wants to operate upon intelligence. Wouldn’t that make him a “conceptual” artist? He gives every sign of wanting to have it both ways, making his medium the body and ideas. But then he goes and says that the first is “obsolete,”ii all the while protesting that his work operates entirely outside of the “outmoded metaphysical distinctions of soul-body or mind-brain.”iii Talk about difficult to please.
One thing that is clear is that Stelarc is not a conceptual artist. He is not interested in communicating concepts about the body. What he is interested in is experiencing the body as concept. He thinks of his performances, which involve minutely prepared, “austere” probings of the functional limits of the body, as a direct “physical experience of ideas.”iv In performance, “expression and experience join,” making the body an “actual manifestation of a concept.”v  The manifestation of a concept: the concepts Stelarc is interested in cannot be communicated about in the performance, because they only come into being through the performance. The ideas he takes as his medium, on a par with the body, do not preexist their physical expression. That is why his first performances were accompanied by no “notices, manifestos or written explanations.”vi It was only after the manifestation of the ideas began in the body that they were able to be disengaged enough from it to enter speech and writing.
Stelarc’s art starts from and continually returns to a point at which idea and body have not yet split, or have rejoined. His medium is the body as a sensible concept. 
PROBLEM: in what way is the body an idea, and the idea bodily? In what way can probing one extend the other? “How is it that the body thinks itself?”vii
This is the problem Stelarc’s work poses. And this is the problem that the art writer must re-pose if the concern is to approach the work on its own terms – or even meet it half-way – rather than imposing an outside frame of judgment upon it. The challenge is to write the rejoining of body and thought that Stelarc performs. This requires a willingness to revisit some our basic notions of what a body is and does, as an acting, perceiving, thinking, feeling thing.