At a certain point, Stelarc realized that fourteen hooks weren’t enough.xvii A doctor advised him that he should use eighteen at minimum, so the weight of his body would be more evenly distributed. That way his wounds would be smaller, and there would less danger of his flesh tearing.
Stelarc’s body suspensions were careful, calculated, literally antiseptic. They weren’t about risk. They weren’t about danger for danger’s sake. They weren’t shamanistic or mystical or ecstatic. And they most certainly weren’t masochistic. The pain wasn’t sought after or revelled in. It was a soberly accepted by-product of the project. Notions such as shamanism and masochism applied to his work are “irrelevant,” “utterly wrong.”xviii The point was never to awe the audience with the artist’s courage or hybris. Neither was it to treat the audience to a dramatic staging of symbolic suffering in order to shed light on or heal some supposedly founding agony of the human subject. For one thing, there wasn’t an audience (and if there were, it is not clear that they would have seen that symbolism through compound eyes).
So what’s the project again? “Extending intelligence beyond the earth.”xix
Hold that thought. 
“What is important is the body as an object, not a subject – not being a particular someone but rather becoming something else.”xx Stelarc applies instrumental reason – careful, calculated, medically-assisted procedure – to the body, taken as an object, in order to extend intelligence into space, by means of a suspension. Now how does suspending the body-object extend intelligence? And what is the something else the body becomes, beyond its objectivity and subjectivity?
To begin to answer these questions, it is necessary to clarify what precisely is suspended. It is not simply the actual body of the artist, because once again the body as an object is in excess over any given actual conjunction it enters into, by virtue of the shadow of generality that is one with its objectivity (reproducibility, predictability, uniformity of anticipated result). By targeting the body as object, Stelarc is targeting the body in its generality; he is targeting the generality of the body. But how, without symbolizing, without communicating to an audience, can a particular performance target a generality? How can a single performance raise itself to the amplitude of the objective? It can’t. 
I didn’t honestly think I’d be doing more than one suspension event but there have been a series of ideas that I felt compelled to realize. In the first four suspension events the body was rotated through 360 degrees in space. The next series of suspensions were involved with all kinds of structural supports. ... More recently there have been the environmental suspensions.xxi
On second thought, maybe it can: if suspensions, like substitutions, do not come in ones. Rolled up in the first suspension-event was an indefinite series of others that were unanticipated. These were present in the first, somehow implicit in it, but not in a way available for conscious elaboration. The first accomplished suspension event set in motion a serial unfolding of variations that were implicit in it or immanent to it. That first event only explored what comes of suspending the body in one particular way. But what of other ways? Is it the same to be suspended upright as horizontal? Upside down as right-side up? Inside from a frame of poles and outside from the top of a building in Manhattan or over a rocky sea-side? Obsolete Bodies/Suspensions/Stelarc (1984) follows the unfolding exploration of the field opened up by the implicitly serial ur-idea of suspension. Each developed event was a variation on that idea, approached from a different angle – permutations in an unfolding combinatoric. 
The suspended body is a sensible concept: the implications of the event are felt first, before being thought-out. They are felt in the form of a “compulsion”: an abstractness with all the immediacy of a physical force. What the apparatus of suspension did was to set up the body’s unfolding relation to itself as a problem, a compulsion, and to construe that problem in terms of force. The compulsion was a problem-posing force that moved through the series. It was its momentum, immanent to the first event and each after, as well as bridging the intervals between them. The compulsive force of unfolding was thus responsible for the felt intensity of each event taken separately and for their continuity. 
This serializing force of compulsion operated in relation with other forces. The basic device employed throughout was an interruption of the body’s necessary relation to the grounding force of human action: gravity. The hooks turned the skin into a counter-gravity machine.xxii The consequences of using the resident forces of the flesh – its elasticity and strength – to counteract gravity were not clearly anticipatable, as illustrated by the fact that the first suspension event was blocked at the last minute by the sponsoring institution, fearing it might be left with a shredded artist.xxiii Stelarc’s suspensions methodically unravelled the implications of hooking up the body as a counter-gravity machine. Only after a wide range of the possible counter-gravity connections were actualized – only after the combinatoric implicit in the first event was close to being exhausted – did the artist feel uncompelled to continue. This process took over ten years.
The suspension-variations should not be confused with answers to the problem posed. The problem posed by a force cannot be “solved,” only exhausted. In a need- or utility-oriented context, the permutations comprising the combinatoric of possible action doubling the given conjunction can indeed be thought-out as cases of solution that inform and precede a choice, the selection of  the “right” (most functional) solution. The combinatoric is based on an analysis of past conjunctions, abstracted from the singularity of their occurrence, then generally projected into the future in the form of a set of functional alternatives to choose from. But here it is precisely need and utility that are suspended, and with them the linear projection from past conjunctions to generally laid-out alternatives. The regularized, needful, useful actions of the human body all hinge in one way or another on its bipedal upright posture, the body’s usual way of counteracting gravity. Interrupt that and you have profoundly disconnected the human body from its normal realm of activity: from its possible actions. The suspended body is in no position to extend its present situation into a logically expressible next step by choosing from a set of possible actions. It is not only in a needless and useless condition, it is in an utterly dysfunctional one. It is in no condition to choose. No analysis-in-action leading to selection here. Not even a presentiment of eventual use-value, as with the bug-goggles. The usual mode in which the body functions as a sensible concept – possibility – is radically suspended. The body is placed at the limit of its functionality. 
The answer to the question of what is being suspended is: embodied human possibility. Each suspension in the series was, not a possible answer, but a re-posing of a problem that stubbornly remains a problem from end to end of its serial unfolding, that refuses solution as long as the human body is the kind of sensible concept it normally is, and functions the way it does. The repeated explorations resolved nothing. Each time, the body was left hanging. By the end of the series, the body was, well – exhaustively hung. Nothing more. No need or use, let alone an effectively conveyed symbolism or even a communicable meaning, was generated. A process, simply, had been set in motion, and had run its course.
What is important to Stelarc is approaching the body as an object, in other words as an objectivized sensible concept whose abstract mode is that of possibility. Stelarc starts at the end. He starts from the pole of possibility as a limit, the outside limit of the body’s functionality, its already-extension into the only-thought of instrumental reason. He assumes the body as a known object of instrumental reason with known, regularized functions of need and utility. Then he applies that same instrumental reason – in the engineering of scaffolding, in the medical knowledge used to take health precautions – in a way carefully calculated to cause it to self-interrupt. That the suspensions were not initially operating in a mode of possibility is amply demonstrated by the fact that their seriality was unforeseen. It is only retrospectively that the series can be resolved into a combinatoric of possible alternatives or permutations. Only retroactively are the suspension events an operation on possibility, on the body at the limit of its generality.
Normally, possibility comes before, for a better after: it consists in a certain abstractive operation on the past that projects it usefully into a future, or extrapolates it. Each step toward that future is seen to be conditioned by the possible: what that future comes to be, in particular, is affected by the possible alternatives laid out before it. The possible moves in linear fashion from past particulars, through a generality doubling each present conjunction (the combinatoric of alternatives), to a next and future particular (selected from the combinatoric). With Stelarc’s suspension series, things are radically different. There is no extrapolation. Here, the possibility of the series results from the series rather than conditioning it.xxiv The possible appears only at the end, after the movement it concerns has exhausted itself. The limit-state in which Stelarc’s suspensions place the body has possibility only in its pastness. Since the momentum carrying the series forward into the future has already lost its momentum by the time its combinatoric is apparent, there is nowhere for its possibility to go. The possible belongs to the suspension series as a pure past, unprojected, only arrived at only after everything is already over. The body’s limit-state prior to its possibility, before it catches up with its past, in the course of  its serial unfolding, is an onward momentum of becoming “something else.” The body is in a state of invention, pure and not so simple. That inventive limit-state is a pre-past suspended present. The suspension of the present without a past fills each actual conjunction along the way with unpossibilized futurity: pure potential. Each present is entirely filled with sensation: felt tending, pending. 
Stelarc’s project is to use particular bodily conjunctions to counteract generality in order to pack the body’s singularity into sensation. That singularity is experience falling out of the particular moment, but not into a generality. Rather: into the impending moreness of serial continuation immanent to each body event – save the last. Actually, including the last. There is still something immanent to the last: another first, no less. A whole new series, beyond suspension. The momentum will leap series, in a move that will be as unanticipated, as abherrant from the point of view of any normal logic of linear development, as was the transition from goggles to hooks. The end of possibility envelops  more, and more varied, potential: multiplicity. The project is to invent an indeterminate bodily future, in an uncommon intensity of sensation packing more multiplicity into bodily singularity. Paul Virilio, so obstinately wrong about so many aspects of Stelarc’s work, got this one right: Stelarcian suspensions approach the body-as-object in order to “negate” it (counteract it) it “in favor of pure sensation.”xxv
In the only suspension in which the body was actively doing something while suspended (hoisting itself on a pulley), what Stelarc registered was a “split between what the body was feeling and what it was doing.”xxvi The mix of activity and suspended animation only made perceptible the divergence between action and sensation: the way in which sensation falls out from action-perception, into a futurity that precedes and doubles the body’s past. The seriality of the performances was a multiplying of that infolded future-singular, before it was the laying-out of a combinatoric. 
Why explore sensation when the project is intelligence? The suspensions in themselves do not extend intelligence beyond the gravitational field of the earth. If they did, they would not be suspensions of the human body-object but, precisely, free-floating continuations of it. What they do is prepare the ground. The suspended body expresses nothing of need or use, nothing of symbolic or semantic value. As a sensible concept, it is an undetermined one from the point of view of function and meaning. It is a corporeal opening. Etymologically, the “extrapolation” of possibility is an “altering out.” Here, the body, infolded, is “altered in.” Stelarc’s art is an interpolation of the body’s openness.
Functions, as well as meanings, are expressions. Every action of a body is a physical expression of its analysis-in-action of the perceptual world, of the plug-in to forces of which the body and its things are complementary poles. The hung body is not actively expressive. But it is expressive nevertheless. Stelarc repeatedly evokes the pattern of ripples and hills that form on the hook-stretched skin, calling it a “gravitational landscape.”xxvii The body visibly expresses the force whose counteracting posed the problem. The “something else,” the something other than an object that it becomes by being approached as an object in this way is a transducer:xxviii a local organization of forces (epidermal elasticity and strength) responding to and transformatively prolonging another force (gravity). A transducer transformatively “manifests rhythms and flows of energy.”xxix The body-transducer transforms gravity from an invisible condition of station, locomotion ,and action into a visibility.xxx Lightwaves are not the only sensible force into which gravity transduced. Many of Stelarc’s suspension events also amplified the sounds of the body. The rush of blood through the artist’s veins as his body rises in a state of heightened receptivity to the effects of gravity are transformed into amplified sound waves that spread to fill the room. The transducing of the body is extended beyond the skin, to propagate through the surrounding space.xxxi The transductive physicality of the body extends to the limits of its spatial containment. The body-as-transducer literally, physically fills its space, becoming architectural, as blood flows sonically to the walls, echoing its built limits.xxxii The body, in becoming a transducer, has become two more things: a visibility of gravity, and a sonic architecturality. A corporeal opening onto sound, image, architecture ... and more. The future. Sensation is the key to accessing the more-than regularized action and perception that is the body-thing.
The suspended more-thans of sound and vision are already extensions, but not yet of intelligence. It is better to call them extendabilities than extensions, because there is no receiver, no audience: there is no one present to register and relay them. They expire with the event. They are beginnings of extensions, incipient extensions. Among the many directions in which a gravitational landscape and a sonic body-architecturality might be extended is into a mystical symbolism of nature-culture fusion, with inevitable overtones of shamanism and exalted masochism. The absence of an audience works precisely to block that extension. The audience will be included again in Stelarc’s art only when the conditions are right for an extension in an entirely different direction: a machinic direction, toward the cyborg, reached by extending the plug-in to gravity, across an inter-series leap, to another fundamental force of human existence: electromagnetism.xxxiii 
In retrospect, the suspension events composing the series can be considered to have been most exhaustively performed in their mutual implication, most intensely rolled into each other in indeterminate futurity, most problematically enveloped, in a singular event – one that was not to be repeated. That event is the veritable “first,” even though chronologically it came in the middle. It is the first in the sense of taking a logical precedence of sorts, embodying as it does the sensible concept of the suspended body in an unthinkably extreme form. It is the most intense embodiment of the ur-idea of suspension. It is of this event that all the others were multiples. It comes “first” in the sense that it is the virtual center of the suspension series.
The body was contained between two planks and suspended from a quadrapod pole structure in a space littered with rocks. The eyes and mouth were sewn shut. Three stitches for the lips, one each for the eyelids. The body was daily inserted between the planks and in the evening was extracted to sleep amongst the rocks. Body participation was discontinued after seventy-five hours.xxxiv
All bodily expression was closed down. Barely glimpsed between the planks, the body generated no gravitational landscape by day. By night, it slipped into a surrounding landscape, reduced to one gravity-stranded object among others, a body-mineral in among the rocks, in darkness, unseen even by itself. Not only did the body not transduce and externalize its sounds, it could not speak. It had ceased to speak, to see and make visible, even to eat. It was shut down. Unplugged. Disconnected from every form of meaningful, need-based, useful function. Delivered supine unto the force of gravity. Stranded abject object.
It was argued earlier that there was not a difference in nature between object and organ. The terms are just conventional designations for differential regions of the same polarized perceptual field. If the transductive suspensions, in which the body began to extend into in image and sound, were counteractions of the body’s objectivity, then the sewn suspension goes one step further, countering the organicity of the body. A body that can express nothing, not even incipient let alone possible action, is supremely dysfunctional. It is what a Deleuze and Guattari call a body without organs.xxxv On hold. Sewn and suspended, the body folds in on itself, to the point that it is not only no longer an object or an organism, it is even stretched to the limit of things. This is what Stelarc dubs the “Anaesthetized Body.”36
Distraught and disconnected.37
The body was passified, but the mind was restless.38
The body is corporeally challenged, its active engagement with the world interrupted. But the forced passivity of the interruption is filled with ferment. The “restlessness” of the body is not “action,” since it produces no outward effect and disengages no possibility. It is a kind of activity prior to action. It is like the unextended, incipient expression of the unsewn suspensions, only even more incipient, not even an unheard echo, only a gravitational vibration still swaddled in the matter of the body. 
The body is no longer a transducer, but rather a resonation chamber, a resonating vessel compulsively, ineffectually registering the force of gravity – as what? In states of near-sensory deprivation,39 and more importantly of deprivation of expression, the mind cannot stop, but neither can it continue. The dividing line between sleep and waking blurs. “Imploding the dichotomy.”40 At the dividing line, their mutual limit, there is a ferment of what might be action or might be thought, an hallucinatory (or hyper-lucid?) indistinction between mind-states and body-states, between actions and echoes, sights and dreams, thoughts and adventures. Since there is no follow-through, no perceivable effect of any kind, it is impossible to tell, and all the more impossible to stop. The dividing line between passivity and activity blurs. The body, passified to the limit, separated from any possibility of being active, becomes uncontrollably activated, inwardly animated. That inwardness is badly served by the word “mind.” Nothing is conclusively distinguished. Everything impinges. Everything is felt. Between the planks, it is the force of gravity, carried to its inertial extreme, that materially registers and resonates, its effect transformatively infolded in the sensitized flesh. The body turns into a hobbled receiver tuned to the frequency of gravity. The received force undergoes the beginning of a transduction. But instead of being unfolded again, continued, extended into a perceptible, actionable, or thinkable transmission, it bubbles into every mode at once, compulsively, with no let up and no outlet. “Everything in motion, connected and contained.”41 This is the zero-degree of sensation, sensation as the zero-degree of everything that a body can do. Suspended animation. “Between gravity and fantasy.”42 Thought and action return together to the body, and the body compulsively rebegins them and their every mix, spontaneously regenerating all that goes into making a body and its complements. Sensation is body-substance, the indeterminate matter from which the body and its objects and organs unfold: felt futurity. Resonating, animated body-substance: corporeal unfolding infolded. Not transductive enough to be called a thing, it is the stuff of things, turned in on itself: restless matter, action wanting, waiting for perception. The sensible concept of the body turned ur-idea of potential.
“Everything in motion”: compound eyes are adapted “for perceiving motion almost exclusively.”43 The bug goggles really were looking forward (or inward) to this moment. Without even knowing it, they focused the project of performing the body as sensible concept away from the peripheral problem of the form of things (their objectivity or organicity) and onto their modalities of motion. It is this problem that lies virtual center: what constitutes a transformative movement, extra-planetary or otherwise? The suspensions make clear that it is across intervals of intensive movements that the body becomes “something else.” This raises the further problem: how can extensive movements turn intensive, and contribute to a transformation of the very nature of the body (as opposed simply to adding permutations on its actions as the object it already is, with the organs it already has)? What subsequent extensions might then unfold? These problems are re-performed, exhaustively, in a non-suspension series of experimentations with prostheses (including the Third Hand, Extended Arm, Extra Ear, Exoskeleton) and then in a further series of cyborg experimentations where the body takes its place in a cybernetic network rewiring its motional limits in a radically new ways (Split Body, Fractal Flesh, Stimbod, Ping Body, Virtual Arm, Virtual Body, Parasite, Movatar).44 All of Stelarc’s performances can be seen as operations which, to use Deleuze and Guattari’s most arthropod formula, “look only at the movements.”45 Eyes sewn shut (or goggled open).
At virtual center, with the sewn body, ur-idea of potential, instrumental reason has returned to activated matter, the transformative stuff of things, sweeping everything associated with intelligence back with it. The direction of perception has been reversed,46 and the reversion pushed to the limit where the inverse movement, into extension, is suspended. But: unsew the still suspended body-substance, hook it up again and amplify it, and you get the beginnings of visible and sonic extension. The matter of the body starts to unfold again, to re-extend, feed forward, still shy, however, of utility and need. Lower the ropes, stand it up, attach a robotic arm to it – and you can perhaps just begin to imagine a use. The body starts to re-organize in response to the unaccustomed connection. Its matter just starts to re-systematize. Its analysis-in-action just barely starts to possiblize. You can feel utility just over the horizon. But it won’t arrive until the world can accommodate its budding usefulness in more than a presentiment. When a way is invented to attach the robotic arm to a computer and remotely control it – now there are possibilities. It really could be used in hostile off-world environments, for equipment repair or mining. It could fulfill so many wondrous functions. Why, it would be a necessity in any extra-terrestrial extension of the body’s sphere of movement.
As much as to say: the obsolescence of the body that Stelarc waxes long on must be produced. 
Outer space? Who needs it? The body is perfectly suited to its current terrestrial habitat. If anything, it is too well adapted to it. The evolutionary success of the human species is its own greatest threat. There are, however, existing solution-cases to the problems of overpopulation and environmental degradation. An equitable, sustainable, post-capitalist economy for one. There is no reason why the current human body-object could not find a niche in that possible future. The terrestrial body will be obsolete from the moment a certain subpopulation feels compelled to launch itself into an impossible, unthinkable future of space colonization. To say that the obsolescence of the body is produced is to say that it is compelled. To say that it is compelled is to say that it is “driven by  desire” rather than by need or utility.47
But in less millenial terms, isn’t each little change on earth an adjustment of the functioning of the human body and its system of objects and combinatoric of possibilities? And doesn’t every adjustment imply on some level an interruption of the old functioning to make an opening for the new? Isn’t always inexorably under way? Then in a very real sense the body is always already obsolete, has been obsolete an infinity of times and will be obsolete countless more – as many times as there are adaptations and inventions. The body’s obsolescence is the condition of change. Its vitality is in obsolescence. We are all astronauts. We all moonwalkers without organs, taking small perceptual steps into the future, on virtual legs (six of them, if my goggles are on right). The body without organs that Stelarc sews himself into is not so singular after all. Or rather, it is so singular, but the singular accompanies and conditions any and every particular, every action, every adjustment, and every extension of these particularities into the general. The body without organs – the reversion of thought and perception-action into pure sensation – is a constant companion of the organism, its future-double.