Curiously, Stelarc bristles at any suggestion that his own project has evolved. He repeatedly points out that he was already working on the idea of the suspensions at the same time he was designing the bug-goggles,53 and that the first suspensions were contemporaneous with the development of the robotic “Third Hand” that was to become the hallmark of his cyborgian experiments.54
The non-linear leaps between series overlapped. Their unanticipated unfoldings, the “periods” of Stelarc’s art practice, are co-present dimensions: phases in Gilbert Simondon’s sense of the term.55 Each infolded in every other as a potential transformative extension of it. What was said of the series of suspensions applies to the larger series of his work: each event re-poses the same problem, differently. The problem is evolution. No final solution is offered to it. No particular utopic future for humankind is elaborated. No clear possibilities disengage, from which the artist would exhort his audience to choose. Instead, the same problem, the same critical condition, is re-played in multiplying variation. The same potential is rejoined, each time to different, and unforeseen, effect. Possibility is analytically thought-out into a combinatoric, to predictable effect. Potential is pragmatically, impossibly re-infolded in continual experimental variation. Possibility is general by nature: analyzable into set of solution-cases disengaged from more than one particular conjunction. Potential is singular: a multiple in- and unfolding into each other of divergent futurities, only the divergence of which is reproducible. The particular nature of each divergent conjunction in the series is precisely what is problematic. Multiple in- and unfolding: singularity is multiplex. The multiplex divergence of the singular is not to be confused with the disjunctive simplicity at the basis of the system of possibility. The multiplex is in mutual inclusion. Possibility develops disjunctively, toward the extension of a next actual step. Multiplex potential envelops, around an intensely suspended (virtual) center.
If Stelarc’s work has to do with desire, it is not desire for something in particular: no utopia. In more ways than one, it is desire without an object. It is desire as a process, purely operative rather than object-oriented: the process of reason rejoining desire.
What are the phases of Stelarc’s project?