This is the state in which all of the dimensions are most intensely infolded in one another. It is a degree-zero of the corporeal, in the same sense that the vacuum is the degree-zero of matter itself. The vacuum, physicists inform us, is not an absence, but an over-presence. The vacuum is the physical co-presence of all possible particles, shooting into and out of existence, folding into and out of each other too fast to be instrumentally perceived with any predictive accuracy, resonating with each other in real excess over the actual. The vacuum is the the operative ur-idea of material existence. It is the state of indistinction of matter with what is normally mutually exclusive of it: the abstractness of the void. Just as the degree-zero of the corporeal is the state of its indistinction with thought. The two zero degrees are in fact facets of the same multiplex excess-over. Stelarcian sensation, or suspended animation, is the human body-object in a corporeal vacuum state. It is the operative ur-idea of human corporeal existence. In Stelarc’s suspended body, humanity-particles speed in and out of existence faster than can be perceived. Ideas, dreams, pains, yearnings, visions, needs, objectnesses and organlets, intelligences and instrumentalities, begin, abort and transform into each other. The vivid sensing by the flesh of a force previously taken for granted (gravity) induces a state of hypermutability, a hyperconnectibility that is blocked as soon as it is triggered. In sewn suspension, the limit-state of sensation, a state of intense activation and readiness is induced, but all outlet is blocked. The felt trigger-force to which the body-matter has been sensitized cannot transduce into anything in particular. The sensation is all particulars, singularly. Everything a body can do, everything a body can become: the condition of evolution. Disconnected. There is a suspension-variation in which sensation is doubled by a displaced action, as if toying with the idea of its perceptual reconnection and extension. That is the pulley suspension, where one hesitant, still counter-gravitational, outlet is allowed. The counter-gravitational function of locomotion is displaced from the legs to the arms, ensuring that the force of gravity is still uncommonly felt. The body is split, one side extending hesitantly into organic perception-action, the other side still steeped in the matter of sensation.