2. Operation: suspension/connection 
Medium: the sensible concept as expression 
Mode: transduction
This is when the forces absorbed by the sensitized body just start to unfold again, to extend again beyond the skin (the base-line objective extent of human body-matter; the extensive envelope of human intensity at its default setting). This dimension overlaps with the first in the suspension events. The skin itself becomes a visible expression of the trigger-force (“gravitational landscape”), which also manifests as a sound-space. The resonation echoes. The extensive envelope of the intensive is re-extended as far as the walls. But it goes no further, because there is still no audience to walk away with the counter-gravitational event. Gravity has effectively transduced. It has been transformatively relayed into other forces, visibility and sound. But the relay is walled in, contained. Connection is re-established, only to be closed. The body begins to express in extension the force it was induced into sensing intensely, but the expression takes place in a communicational vacuum. The performances focusing most directly on the sensible concept as expression are the events for the “Amplified Body.” “Amplified body processes include brainwaves (EEG), muscles (EMG), pulse (plethysmogram) and bloodflow (doppler flow meter). Other transducers and sensors monitor limb motion and indicate body posture. The body performs in a structured and interactive lighting installation which flickers and flares in response to the electrical discharges of the body ...  Light is treated not as an external illumination of the body but as a manifestation of the body’s rhythms.”56 Also expressive are “Hollow Body” events, in which  the interior of the stomach, colon, and lungs is filmed with a miniature video camera.57 The probes disable the default envelope of intensity by following the infolding of the skin into the body, through the orifices. The extension into visibility of the body’s inside reveals its sensitive-intensive, palpitating interiority to be an infolded – and unfoldable – exteriority that is as susceptible to transductive connection as any sampling of body-substance. The body is hollow. There is nothing inside. There is no inside as such for anything to be in, interiority being only a particular relationship of the exterior to itself (infolding). This highlights the non-actuality of sensation.  Sensation, the substance of the body, is not the presence of the flesh in its envelope, but the presence in the flesh of an outside force of futurity (in this case, a portent of the asymmetrical symbiosis of the physiological and the technological as it extends to new frontiers).