So the body is no longer suspended. The door has been opened. The audience is let in, and the transduction just starts to follow through. But to what effect? Certainly not yet the desired disproportionate effect. The audience of a Stelarc performance has not been launched off-world. But even so, things can get spacey. The audience may be induced into a state of stupor. The performance “Fractal Flesh. Split Body: Voltage-In/Voltage Out” is a good example.59 There is little explanation of the nature of the event: no manifestos, no introductory remarks by the artist or a commentator, just a minimal hand-out with a brief explanation of the computer system that doesn’t seem to reach most of those present. In any event, it is too dark to read it. The intent is evidently not to communicate in the sense of imparting information or interpretation. The event is basically unframed verbally, creating an air of uncertainty that quickly turns to foreboding, as a near-naked man walks silently onto the stage is helped into a cyborgian contraption. His body is peppered with electrodes connecting to the computer by wire. On his right arm is attached the Third Hand, a robotic double of that limb. An assistant starts the computer program – and the left side of the body moves. That movement is closely followed by a gestural echo on the part of the robotic arm, as it whirrs in slightly delayed response to the movements of the left flesh-arm and leg. The body goes through a dissociated dance accompanied by even stranger sound effects, verging on music but not quite. As the performance proceeds, the pace of the movements increases, and with it the rhythm of the “music.” By the end, the flesh on-stage is visibly exhausted, seeming to have endured a slowly intensifying pain throughout. Those in the audience who have managed to read the hand-out will know that the robotic arm wasn’t responding directly to the left-side movements. There was a disconnect, a “splitting.” The computer was plugged by electrode into the left flesh-arm and leg. The computer operator could produce a set of left side gestures in any order by pressing icons on a touch-screen. A series of touch-screened gestures could be replayed continuously by activating a loop function, adding computer-generated gestural feedback. An improvise function allowed random gestures to be superimposed. Electricity transduced into organic movement. The robotic arm, however, was not being remotely controlled. It was wired to right-side stomach and leg muscles, controlled voluntarily in symphony with the involuntary left-side movements (that is, as voluntarily as a body can act when most of it is given over to continuous input of remotely controlled gesture-inducing energies). Organic movement transduced back into electricity, before reemerging again as organic movement at a new body site. This relocational transductive relay between muscle-power and electricity occurred across the split between the computer  programmed gestural sequencing and the robotic arm accompaniment. What filled the interval was voluntary action. The human will was not all-directing from outside. It was doubled: it was at the terminal, partially controlling from the edge of the relay, and it was in the relay, folded into the split between the left and right sides of the body across which the transduction passed, controlling even more partially, obliged to respond and choreograph. The human was relegated to a position of adjacency to the relay while at the same time it was integrated into its very heart. There, in the split, the human will was in a kind of a micro-suspension, contributing to a rhythmic transduction of electro-magnetic into organic forces and organic into electro-magnetic: a beat at the heart of an expanded body integrating flesh, metal, and silicon, in mutually prosthetic co-functioning, for relocation and relay.
There was no explanation of the sounds. But the parallels between its rhythm and the pace and magnitude of the gestures suggested another bodily relay. In fact, the music was generated on the basis of electrical impulses picked up from the brain, the movement of the muscles and, as in the suspensions, the flow of blood through the body. The audience, whether or not they understood the details of the plug-ins and relays, were confronted with a compelling spectacle of the body made into a literal transducer relaying between artificial and natural intelligence, human will and programmed motion, organic and mechanical movement, electrical magnetic force and organo-mechanical force, with the extraction of beautifully ghastly sound-expressions from the matter of the body, with the openness of the wired body, pained, exhausted, austere, to inhuman forces vibrating through its flesh, with the strangeness of its dissociated dance, so devoid of necessary function, with the voluntary relegated to local intervention, in the split. The discomfort is palpable. The on-stage body’s vulnerability, its constitutive openness and integrability has been communicated to the audience. Nervousness has replaced the initial uncertainty. No one speaks for awhile. Suspended, and restless. When conversation rebegins, a variety of responses are heard, ranging from outrage to excitement to bemusement to awe.
What has been communicated is not information or interpretation, not verbalized ideas. What has been transmitted is sensation itself, the body as sensible concept. The operation on the audience consists in inducing in them a momentary state of unhooked suspended animation: of stupor. The on-stage body has effectively transduced and relayed the force of electricity. But the audience is out of the electronic loop. Sensation is repeated as an excess-effect of the reconnection of the once-suspended body. It also is doubled: once on stage in the openness and pathos of the artist’s body, again in the stupor of the audience. Stupor is received sensation. Sensation is spun off, centrifugally, landing and reimplanting itself in the audience. Rather than reconnecting, the audience-bodies are only-feeling, in some small way entering a hypermutable state. After a moment, the spectators collect themselves and their thoughts, and translate the sensation into a divergence of emotionally-charged verbal ideas, as they walk away with the effects of the sensation. Is their verbalized reaction the same reaction they would have proferred before seeing the performance in response to a description of it? Has something extra-verbal happened, which has then transformatively unfolded (transduced) into phonemes? Has something changed? Will there be a difference, even a slight divergence, in the way some of the spectators – newly sensitized to the electromagnetic forces and the beating of the integrated will – live their corporeal connectibility? 
The artist has tweaked. He has no mastery over the situation, no effective control over which ideas the spectators verbalize, or over how or if they subsequently connect. And he seems entirely unbothered by that fact, even pleased at the range and unpredictability of the responses. His project is induction and transduction. Meaning is incidental. What, after all, would be the sense of  performing, rather than reciting or writing, if meaning, the sensible concept out-thought, were the target medium of the concepts in play? “Information is the prosthesis that props up the obsolete body.”60 Meaning, whether informative, interpretive or symbolic, props up the old body – the will-controlled body-object – over the abyss of its obsolescence. Meaning adheres the body-object, and its voluntary human control, to the immediate past, rather than splitting it with futurity. 
If the artist’s project is induction and transduction, subsequent connection is the audience’s project. Stelarc’s art limits itself to being a science of indeterminate transmission:  virtual transmission. Not meaning, not information, not interpretation, not symbolism is transmitted: only sensation, the germ of what may eventually unfold as new possiblity. What is transmitted is potential inventiveness. Rather than providing answers, the performance reposes the problem of the body’s reconnectibility toward change. What in particular is transmitted is by design beyond the artist’s contentedly limited powers. He does, however, have a general direction in mind-body. Outer space. But his transmissions will launch in that direction only if his desire is doubled many times over – only if the counter-gravitational compulsion animating the ur-idea of Stelarcian sensation is met, redoubled, and impossibly extended in that particular direction. Stelarc is prodding us. You can’t blame a body for trying. 
He is most powerfully prodding when the phases of his project combine. “Fractal Flesh” combines expressive and prosthetic elements in a new relay apparatus. This superimposition of phases is what Simondon calls a dephasing. In dephasing, the body, along with its objects, dissolve into a field of mutual transformation where what in extension are separate phases enter into direct contact. That field is defined less by the already-established structure of the objects and organs involved than by the potentializing relay that brings them into dynamic continuity across the intervals that normally separate them , making them structurally distinct (the “splits”). The field is defined by the qualitatively transformative movements of energy between structural segmentations (computer/human, left side of body/right side of body, organic arm/Third Hand, control/response, etc.). What the overall transformation is toward, aside from the question of what particular inventions, needs, and utilities might eventually follow from it, is the integration of the human body and will into an expanding network to such an extent that the very definition of the body (and the human) might change.
It is important to note that this kind of performance set-up stages sensation collectively. After all, human bodies never come in ones. A single body evolving is an absurdity. The individual, isolated body of the suspensions was a default position of sensation, just as the skin is the default container of human intensity. And just as the body has already extended beyond the skin, into a mutual prosthesis with matter, from its first perception, so too is the individual body always already plugged into a collectivity. “There is no focus on the individual ... words like ‘I’ are just a convenient shorthand for a complex interplay of social entities and situations.”61 The  isolation of the suspension events was a contrivance designed to return the body to its sensation, in order for it to re-extend into the always-already collective on a new footing. The conditions of sensation, like those of evolution, are fundamentally collective. Simondon insists on this: the transformative field of bodily potential is “pre-individual” (or better, “transindividual”).62 Sensation, even as applied to an artifically isolated individual, is induced by collective stagings (the artist is always assisted) and, as a connective compulsion, always tends toward transductive contagion. To return to the point where thought rejoins the body, and the human rejoins matter, is to return to the point of indistinction between the individual and the collective – which is also the point of their emergent re-divergence. 
The Stelarcian project truly begins to unfold when the audience is let back in. The big result it tweakingly pursues involves a reinvention of the individual in its relation to the collective. In this day and age, that involves a new kind of transductive connection between individuals, taken at least by twos, implemented through (collectively developed and deployed) technologies of communicative transmission. In other words, Stelarc’s project is by nature cyberspatially oriented, and was so prospectively, before the fact. The bug-goggles were distant forerunners of the VR helmet.
 
5. 	Operation: interconnection
Medium: the sensible concept as evolution
 Mode: networking 
A different dimension is reached when the audience is reinvited to participate in the performance, as it was with the goggles and other early events. A member of the audience might be invited to co-control the “split body” by punching a sequence of gestures into the computer, or might even be hooked to the electrodes and share the sensation directly. But the network dimension comes into its own with the Internet events of the late 1990s and early 2000s (“Ping Body,” “Parasite,” “Movatar”). The stage was set for these in “Telepolis” (1995), a re-posing of “Fractal Flesh.” The idea was to hook up the computer controlling the split body’s electrodes to the World Wide Web. In practice, the fledgling Web was still too slow, so a dedicated network of modem-linked computers was subsituted.63 The basic elements were now in place. The body and the Third Arm were in Luxembourg. Other bodies in Paris, Helsinki, and Amsterdam gathered at the specially networked terminals to remotely control the body’s gestures. The effects of their input was made visible for them through a screen feed. The body in Luxembourg could see the faces of its part-controllers on its own screen. A visual feedback loop was thus added to the electro-magnetic/organo-mechanical loop. “Look only at the movements” was now “also look at the movements.” For the audience was in the loop. It had become part of the performance. The distance between the performer’s and the spectator’s actions is remotely abolished, to the extent that it is no longer clear which is which. Sensation has unfolded into a transindividual feed-back loop of action-reaction, stimulus-response. “Electronic space becomes a medium of action rather than information.”64 Action-perception is welcomed back to accompany the staging and contagion of sensation.
Since the situation is still entirely needless and useless, since it is outside established, regularized tried-and-true action-perception circuits, this is not a full-fledged return to analysis-in-action. The performance uses instrumental reason to set up an experimental exercise in operative reason. In this mix with instrumentality, operative reason dominates. The action-perception circuits opened are tried, but in no sense “true.” For they still precede their logical possibility (this is perhaps the meaning of Stelarc’s formula “high-fidelity illusion”). The performance potentializes a material interconnection of bodies. What, if anything, will unfold from it in the way of instrumentally reasonable uses and needs is unforeseeable, a sheer futurity that will only come to pass after an indefinite series of subsequent reposings of the same problem in varying conjunctions. What new possibilities will this serially expanding transductive activation of electronic space produce for the human collectivity? Networked, Stelarcian potential finally just begins to repossibilize, in an evolutionary direction.
The form in which the emergent possibilities begin to express themselves is futurist speculation. In accompanying written material posted on Stelarc’s website, speculation is encouraged on the eventual uses of remote actuation. Space travel, of course, figures large. Possible uses of other Stelarcian set-ups are also brought into the picture. The “Hollow Body,” for example, returns in a possible scenario of nanotechnological symbiosis as technology is implanted in the innermost folds of the body. Could this, combined with prostheses applied to the external envelope of the body, extend not only the spatial parameters of life beyond the earth’s gravitational field but also its time parameters beyond their normal limits, making free-floating cyborg immorality a possibility as human organs are supplemented or supplanted by technological objects?65 The fantastic solution-cases for the problems posed by Stelarcian sensation as it just reconnects to action-perception begin to order themselves into a future combinatoric. But these are still impossible possibilities, uses predicated on as-yet undeveloped technology. Disengaged, only-thought utilities rise like a shadowy vapor directly from the ferment of potential, skipping over the necessary intervening steps through fully fledged instrumental-developmental action-perception. Impossible possibilities are prospective shadows. This is not a utopian moment, because it does not matter, to the artist or anyone else, if anyone really takes them seriously – yet. 
What is important is not the fantastic solution-cases themselves, but the new and compelling problem their speculation poses. Should these disengaged possibilities engage, should the things, objects, organs, thoughts and anticipations they shadow come to stand by them, together with new operative and instrumental interconnections – will we still be human? Can humanity tweak itself into a new existence? The only way anyone will ever know is if the human collectivity applies itself to the development of the intervening technologies, which are then set up to sensitize and potentialize humanity-particles toward launching themselves instrumentally into their own futurity. By then, anyone (or anything) in a position to know will no longer be human. Effective knowledge of these disengaged solution-cases is humanly impossible. Which is why they are necessarily the stuff of futurist speculation. In any case, the knowledge will be attained by someone or something only if there is a sufficiently shared desire among humans for the launch, a strong enough collective compulsion. It won’t happen through a triumph of the will, or through an application of knowledge of outcomes, or even through through natural selection. The will is unlikely to will itself relegated to adjacency and (insult added to injury) fully integrated into the transformative machinic relay. Reflective knowledge of evolution (all reflective knowledge for that matter) is by nature retrospective. Natural selection, for its part, is only evolution’s unfolding. No, if it happens it will only be through desire. Desire is the condition of evolution.
When Stelarcian sensation rebegins to unfold, it is in a new counter-gravitational landscape in which the relations between the possible and the impossible, desire and will-directed instrumental reason, instrumental reason and reflective analysis, and instrumental reason and operative reason, have been reconfigured in an evolution-ready manner. 
It needs to be emphasized that the activation of information operates through the sensitization of the human body-matter to electromagnetic force. More than a container of information, cyber-“space” is a dynamic field of transduction. Computer-assisted transductive interconnection is literally and materially a potentialization. The informational content of that connection, the meaning of the words and images transmitted, is only important as a trigger or catalyst. Information is but a local bit-player in the project of inducing a global transformation-effect whose reason is of another order. Immediately after “Telepolis” Stelarc began plans for an internet project: “Ping Body” (1996). The momentum is rolling. A new series is under way, generating variations on itself.
This time, the body would be plugged into the network in such a way that its gestures would be controlled by the quantity of information traveling the wires. “Instead of people from other places activating the artist, Internet data moves the body. By pinging over forty global sites live during the performance and measuring the reverberating signals, it was possible to map these to the body’s muscles with the muscle stimulation system. The body does a data dance; it becomes a barometer of Internet activity. If we ping China, the signal comes back in only hundreds of milliseconds (therefore not much Internet activity there), whereas if weping the USA, it comes back in thousands of milliseconds. The arms and legs also have sensors that produce sounds indicative of the position and velocity of the fingers and limbs. Internet activity composes and choreographs the performance.”66 The body plugs into the mass of information. As a mass, information is not itself. Its content is neutralized. Information impinges on the body, directly, as a force. Which is why voluntary control is designed out of this loop. In this variation, the emphasis is on making the force of information visible. It visibly expresses the evolution-readiness of the body-networked. Because it makes the network an expressive medium (superimposing phase two on phase five), the body is once again suspended (superimposing phase one). It is alone under the mass of information, like the sewn body once was under the weight of rock. It feels the future-force of information. The involuntary movements induced are not relayed into incipient action-perception or fed-back to other bodies, as was the case in “Telepolis.”  The body becomes a resonating vessel for the force of information, to which it is now singularly sensitized. This device encompassing a re-staging of the zero-degree of sensation, tuned to the cybernetic potential of the body. It composes a virtual center for the internet series of events.
As the transformed return of sensation illustrates once again, the dimensions of the Stelarcian Multiplex are not “periods” in the artist’s work adding up to an evolution. They are a continually varying, operative foldings into and out of each other. “Ping Body” will be followed by “Parasite” (1997),67 and “Parasite” by “Movatar” (2000)68, each enacting different phase combinations (that is to say: partial, selective dephasings potentializing qualitatively different unfoldings). All of the phases, and each event, are present, potentially, differentially, in each. There is, however, have a logical order of precedence indicated by the numbering of the phases here. There is no necessity for the chronological order to follow this logical order. That it did in Stelarc’s case is an accident of history. The main reason it did was that the technological prerequisites for the network (incipient re-extension phase) were simply absent in pre-cyberian 1970. But the desire was there, compulsively beginnning to work itself out, waiting for objects and organs to fall into place.
It should be borne in mind that Stelarc’s project has to do with performing the conditions of evolution. The conditions of evolution are not-yet evolution.That is why Stelarc is right to resist speaking of an evolution of his project. The project cannot accurately be said to evolve, only to serially re-pose, at its furthest point just beginning to unfold. To perform of the conditions of evolution is to reproblematize them. For in an immortalized  cyborg future-present, natural selection would no longer be the operative principle of evolutionary unfolding. The old way of generating evolutionary solution-cases will no longer obtain. 
What Stelarc is projecting is a post-evolutionary evolution of the human. Paradoxically, post-evolution will only be achieved by an actualization of the conditions of evolution, such that what comes “first” – sensation as world-corporeal potential – also comes last, and what is infolded unfolds as such: non-objective and asubjective, not-yet thought and incipient action, activated and supended, individual and collective, all rolled up together. All in one process: everything a human body can do or become (except remain all or too human). The alchemical trick is to induce a temporal feed-back loop, making the moments or dimensions of the project operatively self-referential even as it unfolds: material, qualitative auto-transformation, at once local and global (multiplex), in serial succession and everywhere at a virtual center. An on-rolling infolding for an unfolding of change: the project, evolutionary in desire, is involutionary in its actual operation. That is why it is so thoroughly problematic.
Stelarc’s human body-object: involutionarily “stretched between what it never was and what it can never hope to be.”69 Suspended between the prehuman and the posthuman.
“Time to vanish.”70