The virtual, as such, is inaccessible to the senses. This does not, however, preclude figuring it, in the sense of constructing images of it. To the contrary, it requires a multiplication of images. The virtual that cannot be felt also cannot but be felt, in its effects. When expressions of its effects are multiplied, the virtual fleetingly appears. Its fleeting is in the cracks between and the surfaces around the images. 
Images of the virtual make the virtual appear not in their content or form, but in fleeting, in their sequencing or sampling. The appearance of the virtual is in the twists and folds of formed content, in the movement from one sample to another. It is in the ins-and-outs of imaging. This applies whether the image is verbal, as in an example or parable, or whether it is visual or aural. No one kind of image, let alone any one image, can render the virtual.
Since the virtual is in the ins-and-outs, the only way an image can approach it alone is to twist and fold on itself, to mulitply itself internally. This happens in each of the “parables” in this book. At a certain point, they knot up: infoldings and outfoldings, redoublings and reductions, punctual events falling away from themselves into self-referential encompassment, pasts projecting ahead to futures buckling back into the moment, extended intensities and intensifying extensions. The virtual can perhaps best be imaged by superposing these deformational moments of repetition rather than sampling differences in form and content. Think of each image receding into its deformation, as into a vanishing point of its own twisted versioning.i That vanishing into self-variety is the fleeting of the virtual – more appearingly than in the in-between and around of the single-image forms and contents, however thoroughly re-sequenced by cut-and-paste (combinatorics). The folding-vanishing point is the literal appearance in words – or vision or hearing – of a virtual image center. Take the images by their virtual centers. Superpose them. You get an over-image of images of self-varying deformation: a unity of continuous separation from self. It is there that the virtual most literally, parabolically appears.
This is to say that the virtual is best approached topologically. Topology is the science of self-varying deformation. A topological figure is defined as the continuous transformation of one geometrical figure into another. Imagine a pliable coffee cup. Join the surfaces of the brim, enlarge the hole in the handle, and then stretch it so that all its sides are equally thick. You get a doughnut. You could then tie the doughnut into complex knots. All of the geometrical figures you can create through in this way are versions of the same topological figure. Topological unity is, in and of itself, multiple. Of course it is impossible actually to diagram every step in a topological transformation.ii Practically, only selected stills can be presented. Once again, the need arises to superpose the sequencings. It is only in that superposition that the unity of the figure can be grasped as such, in one stroke. That one stroke is the virtual image center of the figure. It is virtual because you cannot effectively see it or exhaustively diagram it. It is an image because you can, for all of that, figure it, more or less vaguely, in the imagination. Imagination is the mode of thought most precisely suited to the differentiating vagueness of the virtual.iii It alone manages to diagram without stilling. Imagination can also be called intuition: a thinking feeling. Not feeling something. Feeling thought – as such, in its movement, as process, on arrival, as yet un-thought-out and un-enacted, post-instrumental and pre-operative. Suspended. Looped out. Imagination is felt thought, thought only-felt, felt as only thought can be: insensibly unstill. Outside any given thing, outside any given sense, outside actuality. Outside coming in. The mutual envelopment of thought and sensation, as they arrive together, pre-what they will have become, just beginning to unfold from the unfelt and unthinkable outside: of process, transformation in itself.
Whatever medium you are operating in, you miss the virtual unless you carry the images constructed in that medium to the point of topological transformation. If you fall short of the topological, you will still grasp the possible (differences in content and form considered as organizable alternatives). You might even grasp the potential (the tension between materially superposed possiblilites and the advent of the new). But never will you come close to the virtual.
Topology is a purely qualitative science. It is not empirical, if by empirical investigation is meant progressing from description to prediction. It has no predictive value.iv Incapable of directly referencing anything other than its own variations, it is more analogical than descriptive. It is not, however,  an analog of anything in particular. It is not an analog in the everyday sense of a variation on a model. Here, there is no model. Only infolding and unfolding: self-referential transformation. The analog is process, self-referenced to its own variations. It resembles nothing outside itself. A topological image center literally  makes the virtual appear, in felt thought. It is more apparitional than empirical. Sensation, always on arrival a transformative feeling of the outside, a feeling of thought, is the being of the analog. It is matter in analog mode.v This is the analog in a sense close to the technical meaning, as a continuously variable impulse or momentum that can cross from one qualitatively different medium into another. Like electricity into sound waves. Or heat into pain. Or light waves into vision. Or vision into imagination. Or noise in the ear into music in the heart. Or outside coming in. Variable continuity across the qualitatively different: continuity of transformation. The analog impulse from one medium to another is what was termed in the last chapter a transduction. In sensation the thinking-feeling body is operating as a transducer. If sensation is the analog processing by body-matter of ongoing transformative forces, then foremost among them are forces of appearing as such: of coming into being, registering as becoming. The body, sensor of change, is a transducer of the virtual.vi
Possibility, for its part, can be approached quantitatively. Probability is one of the forms the possible’s quantitative expression may take. Probabilities are weightings of possibilities according to the regularity with which they might be expected to appear. Since probabilty approaches possibilities en masse, it approximates potential. Probability commits what René Thom calls an “imposture”vii by expressing the potential it approximates in way that makes it seem that by quantifying it it had made the outcome of the potential predictable, effectively converting it into the mode of possibility. It hasn’t, of course. It only approaches possibility, just as it only approximates potential. The problem is that modes of inactuality are stubbornly qualitative. Quantifying conversions of them always leave a qualitative remainder. This is easily seen with probability, in the fact that it has nothing at all to say about any given conjunction. It says nothing about what will happen in any given case. It is not about particulars, let alone singularities. It targets only the general level, applying not to the event, but only to an averaging of the mass of events. It concerns laws of large numbers. 
Potential doesn’t “apply” to the event either: it makes it. Potential was described in the last chapter as a multiplicity of possibilities materially present to one another, in resonance and interference. Their coming-together is singularly, compulsively felt, so intensely that the sensation cannot be exhausted in one go. Potential strikes like a motor force, a momentum driving a serial unfolding of events. The immanence of that forcing to each event in the series was termed a virtual center. The virtual center is a like a reserve of differentiation or qualitative transformation in every event. It is the sufficient reason of the series. The virtual center never appears as such. It is insensate. It cannot be felt. It appears only in the potentials it drives and the possibilities that unfold from their driving: unfelt, it cannot but be felt in its effects. Each event in a serial unfolding is a sensible analog of that unexpressed effecting: its sensible (embodied) concept.
Both quantification and qualitative transformation, or analog series formation, involve a deactualization. Deactualizations are modes of thought, defined in the last chapter as a processual excess over the actual. They are not deactualizations in the sense that they erase or replace the actual. Rather, they double and redouble it: augment it. Quantification participates in the mode of thought commonly called instrumental reason (the thinking out of possibilities). Qualification is addressed by what was characterized in the last chapter as operative reason (the tweaking of potential). When most attentive to the virtual, qualification deforms into the topo-ontological exercise of contingent reason ( thought bending back to participate in its own emergence from sensation; imagination, or intuition in Bergson’s sense:).
The actual occurs at the point of intersection of the possible, the potential, and the virtual: three modes of thought.viii The actual is the effect of their momentous meeting, mixing, and re-separation. The meeting and mixing is sensation. Sensation stretches on a continuum from the absolute immanence of virtual center to the far end of potential, where it just extends into possibility. No actuality can be fully imaged, since it emerges from, projects into, and recedes into inactuality. Bodies and objects, their forms and contents, do not account for all of it. They do not catch the momentum. To look only at bodies and objects is to miss the movement. An image of the movement of the actual’s appearing – its driving, dynamic excess over itself – is an image of thought.ix An image of thought is an imaging of the imageless. In other words, it is necessarily analogic, incomplete at any and every particular conjunction, complete only in its openness: its continuing. Topology, as a modeling of continuous transformation, can be taken as an image of thought (for more on topology and the virtual, see chapter 8 below).
There is another deactualization process in addition to quantification and qualification: codification. The digital is a numerically based form of codification (zeros and ones). As such, it is a close cousin to quantification. Digitality is a numeric way of arraying alternative states so that they can be sequenced into a set of alternative routines. Step after ploddingly programmed step. Machinic habit. 
“To array alternative states for sequencing into alternative routines.” What better definition of the combinatoric of the possible? The medium of the digital is possibility, not virtuality, and not even potential. It doesn’t bother approximating potential, as does probability. Digital coding per se is possibilistic to the limit.
Nothing is more destructive for the thinking and imaging of the virtual than equating it with the digital. All arts and technologies, as series of qualitative transformations (or in Deleuze and Guattari’s involuted evolutionary vocabulary, “machinic phylums”),x envelop the virtual in one way or another. Digital technologies in fact have a remarkably weak connection to the virtual, by virtue of the enormous power of their systemization of the possible. They may yet develop a privileged connection to it, far stronger than that of any preceding phylum. But that connection has yet to be invented, or at best is still an inkling. It is the strength of the work of Pierre Lévy (against Baudrillard) to emphasize the participation in the virtual of earlier technologies – in particular writing – and (following Deleuze) to insist on a distinction between the possible and the potential as an integral part of any thinking of the virtual.xi The meeting, mixing, and re-separation of the virtual, the possible, and potential concern the appearance of the actual – its emergence from an imageless interrelating. The actual is an appearance in the sense that its perception (its extension into possible action) is an effect of a process that is itself imperceptible and insensate. Equating the digital with the virtual confuses the really apparitional with the artificial. It reduces it to a simulation. This forgets intensity, brackets potential, and in that same sweeping gesture bypasses sensation, the actual envelopment of the virtual.
Digital technologies have a connection to the potential and the virtual only through the analog. Take word processing. All of the possible combinations of letters and words are enveloped in the zeros and ones of ASCII code. You could say that entire language systems are numerically enveloped in it. But what is processed inside the computer is code, not words. The words appear on screen, in being read. Reading is the qualitative transformation of alphabetical figures into figures of speech and thought. This is an analog process. Outside its appearance, the digital is electronic nothingness, pure systemic possibility. Its appearance from electronic limbo is one with its analog transformation. Now take digital sound: a misnomer. The sound is as analog as ever, at least on the play-back end, and usually at the recording end as well (the exception being entirely synthesized music). It is the only the coding of the sound that is digital. The digital is sandwiched between an analog disappearance into code at the recording, and an analog appearance out of code at the listening end. 
Take hypertext. All possible links in the system are programmatically pre-arrayed in its architecture. This has lead some critics to characterize it not as liberating but as downright totalitarian. While useful to draw attention to the politics of the possible, calling hypertext totalitarian is inaccurate. What it fails to appreciate is that the coding is not the whole story: that the digital always circuits into the analog. The digital, a form of inactuality, must be actualized. That is its quotum of openness. The freedom of hypertext is in the openness of its analog reception. The hypertext reader does something that the co-presence of alternative states in code cannot ever do: serially experience effects, accumulate them in an unprogrammed way, in a way that intensifies, creating resonances and interference patterns moving through the successive, linked appearances. For the hypertext surfer, the link just left overlaps with the next. They doppler together. They are not extensively arrayed, beside and outside each other, as alternatives. Neither are they enveloped in each other as coded possibilities. They are co-present in a very different mode. 
The analog process of reading translates ASCII code into figures of speech enveloping figures of thought, taken in its restrictive sense of conscious reflection. There is no thought that is not accompanied by a physical sensation of effort or agitation (if only a knitting of the brows, a pursing of the lips, or a quickening of heartbeat).xii This sensation, which may be muscular (proprioceptive), tactile, or visceral is backgrounded. This doesn’t mean it disappears into the background. It means that it appears as the background against which the conscious thought stands out: its felt environment. The accompanying sensation encompasses the thought that detaches itself from it. Reading, however cerebral it may be, does not entirely think out sensation. It is not purified of it. A knitting of the brows or pursing of the lips is a self-referential action. Its sensation is a turning in on itself of the body’s activity, so that the action is not extended toward an object but knots at its point of emergence: subsides into its own incipiency. The acts of attention performed during reading are forms of incipient action. It was asserted in the last chapter that action and perception are reciprocals of each other. If as Bergson argued a perception is an incipient action, then reciprocally an action is an incipient perception. Enfolded in the muscular, tactile, and visceral sensations of attention are incipient perceptions. When we read, we do not see the individual letters and words. That is what learning to read is all about: learning to stop seeing the letters so you can see through them. Through the letters, we directly experience fleeting vision-like sensations, inklings of sound, faint brushes of movement. The turning in on itself of the body, its self-referential short-circuiting of outward-projected activity, gives free rein to these incipient perceptions. In the experience of reading, conscious thought, sensation, and all the modalities of perception fold into and out of each other. Attention most twisted.xiii
Although all of this equally pertains to inattention. Distraction too is accompanied by characteristic, self-referential actions: scratching, fidgeting, eyes rolling up or around in their socket as if they were endeavoring to look back in at the brain. Every predominantly visual activity is an economy of attention and distraction, often with a pronounced tendency toward one or the other pole. Television assumes and fosters a certain inattention, as the viewing body is invited to zap channels or slip relays to other activities into the commercial slots and slow patches. Watching movies and reading books command considerably more attention, and thus tend toward the other direction. Hypertext surfing combines both modes. Link after link, we click ourselves into a lull. But suddenly something else clicks in, and our attention awakens, perhaps even with a raised an  eyebrow. Surfing sets up a rhythm of attention and distraction. This means that it can fold into its own process a wider range of envelopments and reciprocities of sensation, incipient perception, and conscious reflection. This is particularly true of a structurally open hypertext environment like the World Wide Web (as opposed to closed architectures like hypertext novels on CD-ROM or the commercial CD-ROM reference packages included in many computer purchases). While is still true that everything on the Web is pre-programmed, the notion of a dictatorship of the link carries less weight. Search engines allow un-prearrayed linking, and the sheer size of the Web means that it is always changing, with sites constantly coming into and out of existence (in 2001 it was esimated that web pages were being posted at a rate of eight million a day). The open architecture of the Web lends itself to the accumulation of analog effects. The increase in image and sound content alongside text provides more opportunities for resonance and interference between thought, sensation, and perception. 
A crucial point is that all the sense modalities are active in even the most apparently monosensual activity. Vision may ostensibly predominate, but it never occurs alone. Every attentive activity occurs in a synesthetic field of sensation that implicates all the sense modalities in incipient perception, and is itself implicated in self-referential action (see chapters six, seven, and eight below for more on the virtual and the interrelating of the senses). Each read meaning or conscious reflection that arises is environed by this synesthetic field. Since everything in the field is in incipiency and folding, it is only vaguely felt, or side-perceived, like a fringe around formed perceptions and reflections. A determinate meaning or clear reflection may emerge from that vagueness, but it cannot entirely separate itself from it (see chapter 7 below). It remains attached to its conditions of emergence, as by a processual umbilical cord.
When the hyperlink surfer moves from one link to the next, the conditioning synesthetic fringe of sensation moves with the flow. At the next link, the complexion of its vagueness will have changed. One sense may stand out more from the perceptual infusion of the always accompanying fringe-flow of sensation. The vagueness may sharpen into a selective perceptual focus or a clarity of thought that strikes the foreground of consciousness, in a flash of sudden interest or even revelation. Or the vagueness may thicken, into a lull or daze. Boredom. Who hasn’t experienced that on the Web? The boredom often comes with a strange sense of foreboding: a sensing of an impending moreness, still vague. Next link. The effects doppler from one link to the next as the sense modalities enveloped in the dominant of vision phase into and out of each other, and into and out of clear expression and reflective consciousness. The dopplering is responsible for the overall quality of the surfing process. There is an allure to that process, a pull to surf, that cannot be explained any other way. From the point of view of notable results, most hypertextual sessions are remarkably thin. If it were just a matter of the form or content of the screens take separately, the experience would add up to very little. Surfing, however, like its televisual precursor zapping, is oddly compelling. Given the meagerness of the constituent links on the level of formal inventiveness or uniqueness  of content, what makes surfing the Web compelling can only be attributed to an accumulation of effect, or transductive momentum, continuing across the linkages. This accumulation of effect is a to certain degree a potentialization of the relay. 
Potentialization. The mode in which the successive linkage events are co-present to each other on the receiving end of the digital processing is potential: a felt moreness to ongoing experience. Potential, it was argued earlier, appeals to an analogic virtual as its sufficient reason, as well as beckoning the possible as its thought-extension. Whatever action, perception, reflection eventuates represents a germinating of that potential. Potential, in return, is a situating of the virtual: its remaining immanent to a each and every actual conjunction in a serial unfolding, to varying effect. The possibility stored in the digital coding at the instrumental basis of the process has potentialized, in a way that carries a virtual center of self-varying experience across the running of code-bound routines. The coded possible has been made a motor of transductive potential and analogic virtuality. In the actual play between the digital system of the possible, its potentializing effects, and the analogic charge of virtuality both conditioning those effects and carried by them, new thoughts may be thought, new feelings felt. These may extend into new possibilities in actual situations outside the machine and the screen experience. Seeds of screened potential sown in non-silicon soil. Relay to the world at large.
Digital processing as such doesn’t possibilize let alone virtualize. The digital is already exhaustively possibilistic. It can, it turns out, potentialize, but only indirectly, through the experiential relays the reception of its outcomes sets in motion. Those relays may even more indirectly seed as yet uncoded possibilities: inventions (as defined in that last chapter). Whatever inventiveness comes about, it is a result not of the coding itself, but of its detour into the analog. The processing may be digital – but the analog is the process. The virtuality involved, and any new possibility that may arise, is entirely bound up with the potentializing relay. It is in not contained in the code.
It is of course conceivable that the digital may succeed in integrating analogic process ability into its own operations. Adaptive neural nets approach this, since they are capable of generating results that are not pre-coded. They automatically produce unforeseen results using feedback mechanisms to create resonance and interference between routines. In other words, what is coded is recursivity – machined self-referentiality. The digital processing becomes self-modulating: the running of the code induces qualitative transformation in its own loopy operation. Evolutionary digitality. Machinic invention. There are also more literal attempts under way to integrate analog process into digital processing. These include robots powered by biological muscles produced in laboratory cultures and attempts to plug digital devices directly into living neurons. On other fronts, the sight-confining helmets of early “virtual reality” systems have given way to immersive and interactive environments capable of addressing more directly other-than-visual senses, and looping sense modalities more flexibly and multiply into each other, packing more sensation into the digitally-assisted field of experience – and with it, more potentialization. The notion of ubiquitous computing championed for many years by the Media Lab is seeming less futuristic by the day. The idea is that inconspicuous interfaces can be implanted in everyday environments in such a way as to seamlessly and continuously relay digitally coded impulses into and out of the body through multiple, superposable sense connections, eventually developing into an encompassing network of infinitely reversible analog-digital circuiting on a planetary scale.xiv After all, the earth itself has always been the ultimate immersive environment.
Perhaps the day is not far off when the warnings this essay began with – not to confuse the digital with the virtual – will be anachronistic. But for the time being, the warnings hold. It is certain that if there is one day a directly virtual digitality, it will have become that by integrating the analog into itself (biomuscular robots and the like), by translating itself into the analog (neural nets and other evolutionary systems), or again by multiplying and intensifying its relays into and out of the analog (ubiquitous computing). The potential for this becoming of the digital is missed as long as the relationship between the digital and analog is construed in mutully exclusive terms, as if one entirely replaced the other. A commonplace rhetoric has it that the world has entered a “digital age” whose dramatic “dawning” has made the analog obsolete. This is nonsense. The challenge is think (and act and sense and perceive) the co-operation of the digital and the analog, in self-varying continuity. Apocalytic pronouncements of epochal rupture might sell well, but they don’t compute. When or if the digital virtual comes, its experience won’t be anything so dramatic. It will be lullingly quotidian: no doubt as boring as the Web can be.
The “superiority of the analog” over the digital alluded to in the title does not contradict this closing call to think the two together. It refers to the fact that the paths of their co-operation – transformative integration, translation, and relay – are themselves analog operations. There is always an excess of the analog over the digital, because it perceptually fringes, synesthetically dopplers, umbilically backgrounds, and insensibly recedes to a virtual center immanent at every point along the path – all in the same contorsionist motion. It is simply most twisted. The analog and the digital must be thought together, asymmetrically. Because the analog is always a fold ahead.
NOTES TO CHAPTER 5