Movement-vision is not only discontinuous with mirror-vision. It is discontinuous with itself. To see oneself standing as others see one is not the same as seeing oneself walking as others see one. Maintaining a simple continuity across standing and walking entails positing a commonality between moving and not moving, a generality in which their difference is resolved. It would miss, again, precisely what is being sought: movement as such, in its difference from stasis. The same goes for seeing oneself walking from behind and seeing oneself walking from the side. Movement is relational. Its specificity is compromised if any aspects of the relation are lost to generality – even if it is the generality of the terms in the relation, their self-sameness across time or in different coordinates in space.
Only as a generality can there be said to be a continuity between states (a body standing then walking) guaranteed by a unity of the observer (a subject that remains the same across changes of state in the object). The elementary unit of the space of movement-vision is not a generaliz­ing subject coupled with an object in general – a self-identical observer who recognizes the object as the same, as what is common to different move­ments and to move­ment and stasis. Its elementary unit is the singularity of a movement that includes a perspective which occludes the actual functioning of both the subject and the object. The objectness of the object is attenuated as the subject, seeing itself as others see it, comes to occupy the object’s place as well as its own. Simulta­neously oc­cupying its place and the object’s, the subject departs from itself. The subject-object symmetry of mirror-vision is broken. The subject overlays itself on the object, in a super­position of reciprocal functions. The gap left by the subject’s self-departure is filled not by a new subject or object, but by a process encompas­sing their dis­junction in a tide of change. This disjunctive encompassing is a kind of continuity, but in no way a simple one like that of mirror-vision (one whose implications may be exhausted following a single narrative line). It complicates things. The continuity of movement-vision ­is an included disjunc­tion. It is a continuous dis­place­ment of the subject, the object, and their general relation: the empiri­cal perspec­tive uniting them in an act of recog­nition. It is an opening onto a space of transformation in which a deobjec­tified movement fuses with a desubjectified observer. This larger processuality, this real movement, includes the perspective from which it is seen. But the perspective is that of a virtual observer that is one only with the movement (of the subject’s self-departure). Not: I see you Standing then Walking. But: I (other than) sees me (now you) standing(-from-the-side), standing(-from-behind), walk­ing(-from-the-side), walking(-from-behind).... The elemen­tary unit of the space of movement-vision is a multiply partial other-perspec­tive included in a fractured move­ment-in-itself: change. Change: that which includes rupture but is nevertheless continuous (but only with itself, without complement).