In its spatial aspect, the body without an image is the involution of subject-object relations into the body of the observer, and of that body into itself. Call the spatiality proper to the body without an image quasicorp­oreal­ity.x The quasicorporeal can be thought of as the superposition of the sum total of the relative perspec­tives in which the body has been implicated, as object or subject, plus the passages between them: in other words, as an interlock­ing of overlaid perspectives that nevertheless remain distinct. The involution of space renders these relative perspectives absolute: it registers movement as included disjunction. Subject, object, and their successive emplace­ments in empirical space are subtracted, leaving the pure relationality of process. Quasicorpor­eality is an abstract map of transformation. Its additive subtrac­tion simultaneously constitutes the spatiality of the body without an image and translates it into another kind of time. For pure relationality extracted from its terms can be under­stood at the extreme as a time out of space, a measureless gap in and between bodies and things, an incorporeal interval of change. 
Call that substanceless and durationless moment the pure event. The time of the event does not belong per se to the body in movement-vision, or even to the body without an image. They incur it. It occurs to them. As time-form it belongs to the virtual, defined as that which is maximally abstract yet real, whose reality is that of potential – pure relationality, the interval of change, the in-itself of transformation. It is a time that does not pass, that only comes to pass. It cannot be suspended because, unlike empirical time, it does not flow. The event is super-empiri­cal: it is the crystalli­zation, out the far side of quasicorporeal­ity, of already actualized spatial perspec­tives and emplace­ments into a time-form from which the passing present is excluded, and which for that very reason is as future as it is past, looping directly from one to the other. It is the immediate proximity of before and after. It is nonlinear, moving in two directions at once: out from the actual (as past) into the actual (as future). The actuality it leaves as past is the same actuality to which it no sooner comes as future: from being to becoming.