The cue-call or order-word that jolted Reagan into the body of another fellow had the force of a magic incantation. It induced a phenomena of possession verbally manifested in the automaton mouthing of pre-scripted words, that is to say as ventriloquism. Susceptibility to possession and ventriloquism are the requisite skills of the true actor Reagan now embodies. Together they define the actor’s talent: self-affectation. That term should be understood in the double sense of the artificial construction of a self and of the suffusing of that self with affect.
Again, nothing would have happened without artifice. Reagan is extracted from the body without an image and delivered to the actuality of his becoming-actor by the good graces of a “rig.” The order-word simply tripped the rig into operation. Call the rigging of becoming induction. The activation of the rig by the order-word culminated his passion by inducing his possession of his body. Although he may think of himself as having been possessed by the other fellow of the script, it is ultimately the body without an image that takes his body, endowing it with a measure of potential. Reagan is now in becoming; his being is “short of actual.”  That is to say, his actual perceptions are coloured by the virtual. Unable to recognize the virtual-in-the-actual, Reagan develops it into feelings and ideas whose combined effect is to transpose it into a future possibility: an ultimate actuality in which the potential that has seeped into his body has been fully realized; the complete man that he desperately wants to become but which, as an ideal of being, prefigures the end of becom­ing. Reagan’s body reenters linear time, although it still carries with it traces of the body without an image, transposed into a phantom amputa­tion. Call the phantom amputation that comes to stand for the body without an image in Reagan’s mind and emotions the exemplary event (or central phantasm) of his life. Call each threshold he passes on the road to his ideal of being, each movement culminated in an everyday context or between contexts, an ordinary event (also a phantasm; as used here, the word phantasm does not connote irreality, quite the contrary; it connotes the mode of reality proper to events, however exalted or ordinary: insistent ontological ungraspabil­ity).