The exemplary event is a deferred completion. But the fact that it takes over his life indicates that Reagan has already attained a comple­tion of sorts. For the ideal implied by the exemplary event to have been produced, Reagan had to have rejoined the body without an image for a spasmodic moment. His empirical body was completed by its virtual double. The word “completion” is misleading. In the case of the exemplary event, it is misleading because it is not attainable: it denotes an ideal being, and as such lies beyond the reach of becoming. Call the ideal of being-complete unity. The ideas, emo­tions, and mirror-vision images attached to unity keep the ideal alive as the object of a compul­sion or tendency. Call them whole attractors. In the case of the body without an image, “completion” is mislead­ing because it is always already attained at every turn. Call that perpetual future-past doubling ordinary events supple­menta­rity. The exemplary event is the transposi­tion of supple­mentarity into the lure of unity. Transposed supplemen­tarity is the mode of being of the pure event. Call the event, to the extent that it continues to call from across its transposition, defining a compulsion or tendency to fracture the integrity attributed to the body in everyday action-reaction circuits and to shatter the symmetry attributed to subject and object in their mirrored mutuality, a fractal attractor.
Call the seeing of the body without an image by the blind-sight of movement-vision blank mimicry. The activity of the actor is less to imitate a character in a script than to mimic in the flesh the incorporeality of the event. Blank mimicry is supplemented seeming (acting injected with real passion and yielding real change) and seeming supplemental (the attainment of real passion and real change through the staging of the body in suspended animation). The rig, the order-word, the question-response, induction, possession, ventriloquism, the development of an emotionally charged ideal of unity and the quest to reach that ideal – all of these are technol­ogies for making seeming being,xviii for making a life of acting, for making something unified of supplemen­tar­ity, something central of liminality, for filling the fractal rim to make a (w)hole.