The paradox at the heart of tango’s practices of appropriation and dissem- ination is expressed in El Diario, an Argentinean newspaper, in the early part of the twentieth century: “If tango—already a poor representation... of the national being—was going to stand for Argentina, the Europeans could at least respect the authentic Argentinean practice” (in Savigliano 1995, 140). What we see in this story fraught with “inconsistencies” is a strategy in movement rather than a stable discourse. Interestingly, what is always cast aside in the appropriation of tango for consumption in an exoti- cized state (whether by Europeans, by Americans, by Asians or by the Argen- tines themselves) is the body. What is not considered is the body as the instability within this signifying system, the body in and as movement, the bodies touching, listening, engaging, responding. These multiple bodies are cast aside because they complicate the discourse of tango, because they can- not easily be located on either the grid of colonialism or imperialism, on the grids of intelligibility of nationalism or exoticization. Bodies, when they appear within the discourses of tango mobility, are cast not as conditions of emergence of tango but as re-conditionings of the emerged, where touch is conceptualized (if thought of at all) as a static process that can be calculated and disseminated within a stratiﬁed chronotope. Ironically, despite tango’s exoticization as the true image of sensuality (and even sexuality), there is nothing erotic in this desire-less rendition of pre-fabricated tango. Brian Massumi writes: “Conditions of emergence are one with becoming” (2002a, 10). The body is the condition of emergence of space, it is the “retroduction” (Massumi 2002a) of space-time in the crossings of bodies touching. It is the sensation in and of the space-times we create that remain intervals between our (un)touching bodies. Bodies here are productions, movements, initiating and re-troducing space-time. This is not space measured: “[m]easurement stops the movement in thought... yielding space understood as a grid of determinate positions” (Massumi 2002a, 10). Space- time re-troduced could be thought as a becoming-body of touch, an engage- ment with processes already in motion. Body and object are no longer dis- tinct, they ally in process, traversing space-time, re-creating themselves and/ as space-time as/in movement. This is tango: an event in a politics of touch. As a politics of touch, tango undermines all theories of coherence, ren- dering it inexplicable why certain areas of the world become tangoed and others less so. Tango moves, and through its displacements bodies are instan- tiated. Bodies are in motion, traversing each other, touching each other, listening or not listening to one-another. This is not an idyllic circumstance, it is a learned desire to be aware, awake, attentive to an other as an-other. It is a desire in movement, a desire to know the spaces our bodies create together, a desire to feel the touch, to share the space of touch, to inaugurate a politics of touch that must always start over. It is, largely, a badly paid proposition, an endless moving-in-circles, a walk-that-goes-nowhere, an encounter with the night when “those who do serious work” sleep, a silent moment of reci- procity with someone I will perhaps never meet again. It is therefore not its “usefulness” (in any economic sense of the term) that brings politics to tango, it is its touch, a touch that cannot be categorized, classiﬁed, organized, deﬁned as anything but the moment-in-passing when I listen(ed) to you.