Engendering is emergence toward the multiple. To engender is to take into account potential. Potential calls forth reserves of becoming that prompt us to recognize that identity can never be identical to itself. Gender is not ontological, it is ontogenetic. To become gendered is to become more than one, but not just two. Being “more than one” is to exist in a metastable state that acknowledges the mutations of a body-in-relation that are not predetermined by a given ideal or an infrastructure that seeks to organize and categorize the realm of the biological possibilities of a body. These transﬁgurations designate not only the metastability of all body-systems, but also their virtuality: an engendering body—gendered or not—is always not quite what it can become. Unlike possibilities, which are predetermined within their own systems, potential (or the virtual) designates a movement toward emergence. This virtual body is real but not yet actual. To become actual implies the emergence of new compositions. Matter and immateriality, corporeality and incorporeality are operative on adjacent planes, shift- ing to and through one another. Engendering gender is to never know in advance what a gendered body can do.
Instead of positing nature as One, Spinoza draws our attention to the parallel multiplicities of being and becoming, the relation between politics and nature, intensity and extension, mind and body. All of these deﬁne, for Spinoza, the importance of thinking metastability rather than stability. Individuations operate through this logic, calling forth engenderings that locate themselves always between bodies, in the chronotope of the not-yet but already-underway. This chronotope is metastable because it remains far-from- equilibrium in a system that remains on the verge of modiﬁcation due to parameters that are in ﬂux. “[E]very system that ﬁnds itself in a metastable state harbours potentials which—because they belong to heterogeneous dimensions of being—are incompatible” (Combes 1999, 11). These poten- tials cause dephasings in the system that create unpredictable engenderings. “Re-thought as a metastable system, being before individuation is a ﬁeld rich in potentials that can be only in becoming, that is in individuation” (Combes 1999, 15).
Transduction is the movement through which individuations relate. Transduction expresses the processual nature of individuation, whereby the observer is never preconstituted. A stable “outside” cannot be conceptualized within the process of transduction. As Simondon writes, the ontogene- sis that takes place through transduction requires that we “follow being in its genesis, accomplishing the genesis of thought at the same time as the genesis of the object completes itself” (1995, 32). It is not a question of deﬁning conditions of possibility (a Kantian move) or deﬁning the limits of knowledge. Rather, it is a matter of positing thought and individuation in relation. It is only post-transduction, in the brief moment of embodiment- as-such, that an object of knowledge emerges.