2.  Happy Together
1. According to Bergson, there are two types of multiplicity, neither one of them reducible to the One. The ﬁrst kind of multiplicity is represented by space. This is a “multiplicity of exteriority, of simultaneity, of juxtaposition, of order, of quantitative differentiation, of difference in degree; it is a numerical multiplicity, dis- continuous and actual” (in Deleuze 1988a, 38). The second kind of multiplicity “is an internal multiplicity of succession, of fusion, or organization, of heterogeneity, of qualitative discrimination, or of difference in kind; it is a virtual and continuous multi- plicity that cannot be reduced to numbers” (Deleuze 1988a, 38).
2. Spinoza’s work is thought-provoking as regards the body and movement. For Spinoza, it is the relations of motion and rest, of speeds and slowness between parti- cles that deﬁne a body. Rather than being characterized by form or by function, the body is located as relations of motion and rest, of slowness and speed, as a complex relation between differential velocities, between deceleration and acceleration of particles (Deleuze 1992, 625–26).
3. For more on the subject of tango’s “origins” (a highly debated subject) see Savigliano (1995). Savigliano demonstrates how the “history” of the tango is writ- ten as an “effort at justiﬁcation,” this justiﬁcation, depending who is writing, focused on issues of class difference, nationalism, exoticism, or imperialism. Within Argen- tinean lore, the locus of “original” theses concerning tango comprise Rossi’s histori- cal legend (1926), Jorge Luis Borges’s mythology (1928), Vega’s systematic geneal- ogy (1936), and Bates and Bates’s social history (1936).
Savigliano writes: “The promotion of tango through imperial exoticism and through ‘civilized’ appropriations generated such a diversity of tango practices that the need to establish an ‘authentic tango’ became a must.... The scandalous colonial, racist and classist histories of tango had been paciﬁed under the exaggeration of its erotic display. [The] search for tango origins and authenticity led to a different set of complex practices of internal discrimination that were related to the issue of national identity—an issue soaked in colonialism” (1995, 155–56).
4. It is important to note that the legends that de-politicize tango come not only from the “outside.” Within Buenos Aires, there is a deep schism between the tango of the over and the underclasses, a palpable tension between the immigrants and the criollos, between the natives and the whites. Savigliano writes that “exter- nal imperial interventions, through the process of eroticisation, affected the local reception of tango and how tango intervened in the local and foreign debates con- cerning the shape of Argentina’s national identity” (1995, 138). On the one hand, tango called into question the elite’s legitimacy to represent the nation. On the other hand, tango sequestered the natives of Argentina as “others” to the national iden- tity since tango was not “their” dance. “Highly Westernized and yet exotic-to-the- West, tango became the national symbol” (Savigliano 1995, 166).
5. For Rancière, “the singularity of the act of the demos . . . is dependent on an originary disorder or miscount: the demos, or people, is at the same time the name of