3. Erring toward Experience
1. “Politics happens in time, against time,” writes Bennington. In the quickness of time, a re-articulation of the political is the injunction to make decisions that are not based on pre-programmed scenarios. (My translation. The original text reads: “La politique se fait dans le temps, contre le temps,” see Geoffrey Bennington, http:// www.sussex.ac.uk/Users/sffc4/contre.doc.)
Decisions are not given, Derrida reminds us, they are taken. Politics, when it be- gins to drift away from its metaphysical determinations, can be thought of as a process of “taking” decisions.
2. This is a term coined by Derrida, which connotes the response-ability in- volved in the process of decision-making.
3. Consent: consentire, to feel together; con, with; sentire, to feel, to think, to judge; to agree in sentiment; a relation of sympathy between one organ or part of the body and another, whereby when the one is affected the other is affected corre- spondingly (Oxford English Dictionary).
4. Of course, we must not forget Eve, who also appears in the fresco. For more on Eve, see Boyle (1998).
5. See chapter 7 for an elaboration on Spinoza and politics.
6. Giorgio Agamben uses the image of the camp as a metaphor for the position of the state in politics today. He argues that the camp is the space that is opened when the state of exception (Schmitt 1976) becomes the rule, that is, when the state of exception is itself taken into the juridical order. When the state of exception is instantiated by the state, a juridico-political paradigm is inaugurated, whereby the norm becomes indistinguishable from the exception: “The camp is a hybrid of law and fact in which the two terms have become indistinguishable” (1997, 110). Within the camp, the inhabitants are stripped of political status and thus reduced to “bare life.” “This is why,” writes Agamben, “the camp is the very paradigm of political space at the point at which politics becomes biopolitics and homo sacer is virtually confused with the citizen” (1997, 110). See also Agamben (1998).
7. See Sartre (1938).
8. See Erin Manning, “Face to Face with the Incommensurable: Srinivas Krishna’s Lulu” (2003).
9. Stathis Gourgouris suggests that the project of autonomy of the individual instituted in the Enlightenment inaugurates the modern subject as a “primarily legal entity whose external (social) boundaries are sanctioned by a set of ‘inalienable rights’ and whose internal imagination adheres to the belief that these rights are indeed in- alienable (that they represent one’s irrevocable independence before the law, the safe-