guard of self-determination)” (1996, 121). This new legal status sought to institute and safeguard a rationality of violence. It did so by monopolizing the deﬁnition of vio- lence based on the concept of rationality. “The Enlightenment made it possible to see that law is always authorized force, that law cannot be dissociated from the matter of its applicability (and thus enforcement)” (128). Force thus becomes immanent to law, and the question of justice in relation to the law can no longer be avoided.
10. Hent de Vries writes: “Politics, as the struggle for a lesser evil, for a mitiga- tion, reduction or even abolition of violence, the violence of the self as much as that of an other, should be considered an obligation no less than a necessity. Yet its pursuit of the better is always also shadowed and haunted by what—in itself or as politics’ other—resembles or measures itself against the apparitions and spectres of the worst” (1997, 42–43).
11. See section on errant politics in Manning (2003, xxvii–xxxi): “Errant politics subverts attachments that depend on the stability of territory and identity, rewriting the national vocabulary of belonging into a language of moments. To err within pol- itics is to initiate a dialogue that transgresses monologic state sovereignty.”
12. “To err is to take a voyage, to wander. In French, erre signiﬁes the track of an animal, left for us to discover in the sand, in a trace on the snow, on the earth.... Erring, I advance on a path that corresponds to no opening” (Manning 2003, xxviii). “To err is probably this: to go outside the space of encounter” (Blanchot 1993, 27).
13. The Word: (o logoß). Logoß is from legw, old word in Homer to lay by, to col- lect, to put words side by side, to speak, to express an opinion. Logoß is common for reason as well as speech. Heraclitus used it for the principle that controls the uni- verse (Oxford English Dictionary).
14. The laying of hands in the Bible takes place in both directions: Jesus heals by touching others and others are healed by touching him. “For she said within her- self, If I may but touch his garment, I shall be whole” (Matt. 9: 21). “So Jesus had compassion on them, and touched their eyes: and immediately their eyes received sight, and they followed him” (Matt. 20: 34).
15. Innumerable artists have depicted this scene. They include Rembrandt (Buckingham, collection of Elizabeth II, London), Dürer’s “La petite passion,” Titian (National Gallery, London), Pontormo (Casa Buonarotti, Florence), Cano Alonzo (Budapest, D.R.) and Correggio (Prado, Madrid).
16. This quote is from an unpublished paper. See also Lambert (2002).
17. There are many versions of the relationship between Mary Magdalene and Jesus. For interesting reading on Mary Magdalene, see Leloup (2002). See also Pagels (1979) and Robinson (1990). David Tresemer and Laura-Lea Cannon write: “The earliest materials that refer to Mary Magdalene appear from two very different sources: the canonical Gospels of the New Testament, and a group of fringe materials that have come to be known as the Gnostic Gospels, which were rejected by the Roman Catholic Church.... Amidst all of the conjecture regarding the identity of Mary we ﬁnd some important details that do emerge from all four Gospels [Matthew, Mark, Luke and John]: Mary Magdalene is the only woman besides Mother Mary who is mentioned by name in all four texts, and her name, in all but one instance, is the ﬁrst listed when there is mention of the women present at an event.... Only in 1969 did the Catholic Church ofﬁcially repeal Gregory’s labelling of Mary as a