5.  Making Sense of the Incommensurable
1. See also Deleuze (1993).
2. This may not be the case with the work of Orlan. See O’Bryan (2005).
3. Synesthesia refers to the interconnection of the senses. Brian Massumi writes: “every actual experience is at a crossroads lying intensively between the poles toward which these movements tend. Every actual experience is strung between cross-tendencies toward the limits of single-sense purity and intersense fusion.... Every given experience is already many-mixed.” See Massumi (2002, 158). Synes- thetes have access to other-sense dimensions, as when sounds are visible as colors. For more on synesthetes, see Massumi (2002, 186–90).
4. National time refers to the ways in which time (and/as history) is conﬂated with the nation. In order to secure chronological narratives that sustain the national imaginary, time is conﬂated to the business of the nation. Certain events are thereby foregrounded at the expense of others and time is reﬂected upon as a stable signiﬁer rather than a shifting chronotope.
5. Beardsworth suggests that “Derrida’s philosophy only makes sense politically in terms of the relation ‘between’ aporia and decision and neither in terms of a uni- lateral philosophy of aporia nor in terms of a unilateral philosophy of decision: in other words, aporia is the very locus in which the political force of deconstruction is to be found” (1996, xiii).
6. On the law, Derrida writes: “To be just, the decision of a judge, for example, must not only follow a rule of law or a general law but must also assume it, approve it, conﬁrm its value, but a reinstituting act of interpretation, as if ultimately nothing previously existed of the law, as if the judge himself invented the law in every case. No exercise of justice as law can be just unless there is a ‘fresh judgment,’” (1992, 23). The violence of the law refers to the institutionalization of law that norma- tivizes structures, making it difﬁcult to conceive of a rewriting of the foundations that make these laws possible.
7. See chapter 6 for a continued exploration of the senses as prostheses.