8. Richard Doyle writes: “‘Life,’ as a scientiﬁc object, has been stealthed, ren- dered indiscernible by our installed systems of representation. No longer the attrib- ute of a sovereign in battle with its evolutionary problem set, the organism its sign of ongoing but always temporary victory, life now resounds not so much within sturdy boundaries as between them. The very success of the informatic paradigm, in ﬁelds as diverse as molecular biology and ecology, has paradoxically dislocated the very object of biological research.... This ‘postvital’ biology is, by and large, interested less in the characteristics and functions of living organisms than in sequences of molecules and their effects. These sequences are themselves articulable through data- bases and networks; they therefore garner their effects through relentless repetitions and refrains, connections and blockages rather than through the autonomous inte- riority of an organism” (2003).
9. There are many laboratories currently developing haptic interfaces, ranging from desktop accoutrements (see www.sensable.com) to medical, military, techno- logical, and biological applications. The Purdue University Laboratory is currently working on a wide array of applications that include a sensing chair. They describe it thus: “The sensingChair introduces a seat that feels its occupant through a layer of ‘artiﬁcial skin.’ Pressure sensing is accomplished with two commercially-available pressure-distribution sensor sheets from TekScan Incorporated. As a new input device, the sensingChair opens up new opportunities for human-computer interactions. The long-term goal of this project is to develop a nanoworkbench capable of pro- viding real-time perceptualization of the mechanical properties, such as stiffness, adhesion or friction, of a nanoscale object during positioning or manipulation. We believe that this effort will lead to a better understanding of the important issues in the assembly of prototype nano-structures. By bridging the nano- and macro-worlds with a haptic interface, a researcher will be able to precisely position, assemble, and move nanoscale objects by feeling their way with a tele-operated AFM tip. Current efforts focus on the development of a passivity-based controller that will ensure the stability of the haptic interface during nanomanipulation” (http://www.ecn.purdue
.edu/HIRL).
10. For more on the concept of the posthuman, see Hayles (1999).
11. “Simple location” is Alfred North Whitehead’s concept. Whitehead writes: “The characteristic common both to space and time is that material can be said to be here in space and here in time, or here in space-time, in a perfectly deﬁnite sense which does not require for its explanantion any reference to other regions of space- time. Curiously enough this character of simple location holds whether we look on a region of space-time as determined absolutely or relatively. For if a region is merely a way of individuating a certain set of relations to other entities, then this character- istic, which I call simple location, is that material can be said to have just these rela- tions of position to the other entities without requiring for its explanation any refer- ence to other regions constituted by analogous relations of position to the same entities” (1967, 49).
12. For more on possible worlds, see Manning (2004). See also Lazzarato (2002).
13. See Derrida (1992). For Derrida, there is an important difference between law and justice. He writes: “A deconstructive interrogation that starts... by destabiliz- ing or complicating the opposition between nomos and physis —that is to say, the