scientiﬁc knowledge, also of methods, expedients; in mathematics, a formula arrived at inductively” (Oxford English Dictionary).
11. Spinoza’s ethics have nothing to do with morality. Ethics are an ethology: the construction of a plane of immanence that is at once an ethics and an ecology. A composition of speeds and slownesses. The power to affect and be affected. Ethol- ogy is therefore ﬁrst the relation between accelerations and decelerations in the composition of each body. Variations are at stake here, as well as transformations. “So an animal, a thing, is never separable from its relations with the world. The in- terior is only a selected exterior, and the exterior a projected interior. The speed or the slowness of metabolisms, perceptions, actions, and reactions link together to constitute a particular individual in the world” (in Deleuze 1988b, 125).
12. On concern, see Whitehead (1967b): “It must be distinctly understood that no prehension, even of bare sensa, can be divested of its affective tone, that is to say, of its character of a ‘concern’ in the Quaker sense. Concernedness is of the essence of perception” (180).
13. “The state of reason, in its initial aspect, already has a complex relation to the state of nature. On the one hand the state of nature is not subject to the laws of reason: reason relates to the proper and true utility of man, and tends solely to his preservation; Nature on an other hand has no regard for the preservation of man and comprises an inﬁnity of other laws concerning the universe as a whole, of which man is but a small part” (Deleuze 1990a, 263).
14. For more on the senses and making sense, see chapter 5.
15. Hayles writes: “the erasure of embodiment is a feature common to both the liberal humanist subject and the cybernetic posthuman. Identiﬁed with a rational mind, the liberal subject possessed a body but was not usually represented as being a body. Only because the body is not identiﬁed with the self is it possible to claim for the liberal subject its notorious universality, a claim that depends on erasing markers of bodily difference, including sex, race and ethnicity.... Although in many ways the posthuman deconstructs the liberal humanist subject, it thus shares with its predecessor an emphasis on cognition rather than embodiment....I view the pres- ent moment as a critical juncture when interventions might be made to keep dis- embodiment from being rewritten, once again, into prevailing concepts of subjec- tivity. I see the deconstruction of the liberal humanist subject as an opportunity to put back into the picture the ﬂesh that continues to be erased in contemporary dis- cussions about cybernetic subjects” (1999, 4–5).
16. A system is in equilibrium when its dynamics are more or less maintained despite environmental changes. In disequilibrium, molecules act as singularities and become unpredictable. “Unlike their behavior in equilibrium systems, those in ‘dis- sipative structures’ are marked by an element of internal unpredictability, by capaci- ties of self-development, by periods of signiﬁcant openness to outside forces, and by a trajectory of irreversible change that endows them with a historical dimension” (Connolly 2002, 55). A politics of touch is far from equilibrium in many senses: it does not deal with already-formed bodies; it exposes itself to the surprise of prostheti- cally driven sense-events; it exposes itself to the impossibility of good and common sense, admitting its relation to making sense only to the degree that making sense is a prosthetic endeavor; it engages democratically only to the extent that it concedes