For Aristotle, a good life involves social relations and institutions: man is a creature by nature adapted for life in a polis. The purpose of the state is to do what the individual man cannot: the state is put into place in order to extend beyond “mere” life. In this scenario, the state is synonymous with political partnership, a partnership established by nature to satisfy all the daily needs of the household (1961, 383). This partnership established by nature is considered “natural,” which supports Aristotle’s claim that “man is by nature an animal designed for living in states” (1961, 384). Aristotle argues that the state of which he speaks is a plurality that exists for the sake of the citizen prior both to the individual human being and to the house- hold, for “the whole must be prior to the part”: the state is a political orga- nization of a like-minded plurality (1961, 384). Within this system, the citi- zen is not a citizen simply by virtue of inhabiting a certain place of residence, the citizen is he who has a share in the administration of justice in holding political ofﬁce: “[t]he goodness of a reputable citizen is thought to consist of the right use of ruling and being ruled” (1961, 408).
If the state is essentially both natural and plural as Aristotle suggests, the important question is how this relation of the natural and the plural is theorized as a central component of his understanding of the state-system. Plurality is evoked here as a multitude of identifying practices that depart from a common ground: man. Man, for Aristotle, is natural (i.e., political) and therefore plural, whereas woman is not political, nor, by extension, plural. Plurality in the polis implies a system that supports the organization of a nat- uralization of the terms at stake (politics, gender, race) by like-minded men. This is not substantially different from state-systems today where a chorus of like-minded voices are united to pledge allegiance to the citizen-nation- state triad. Space and time are withheld within this system as markers for a stable geography (even in the international or “global” realm) and a consis- tent history. Plurality (in the name of most multiculturalisms) conforms to the dimensions of difference controlled and sustained within state sovereignty. Politics of touch attempt to evoke a pluralism that radically departs from Aristotelian thought and celebrates a demystiﬁcation of the naturalizations that allow ends to become means. Through a notion of politics that is pro- duced as a means without an end, a potentiality rather than an actuality, we can begin to defy the constriction of time and space straitjacketed by the nation-state. Potentiality, as the insertion of difference in a moment of certainty, is one way of speaking of the divergence between normativity and the interruption of accepted norms. I read potentiality as that which exposes difference in systems that appear to be organized and unchanging. I do not seek to place actuality and potentiality in opposition, however. The passage from potentiality to actuality need not be ascertained as an elimination of potential. Rather, this passage can be theorized as potentiality itself, for potentiality resides within every interaction: potentiality is called forth every time language exceeds its syntax, every time an other exceeds my reach, every time I sense more than I comprehend.