Turning to touch as a political gesture, I mean to bring the body to politics differently. Touch connects bodies, human bodies, bodies of thought, intermittently. As a political gesture, touch is an utterance geared toward an other to whom I have decided to expose myself, skin to skin. Touch is an ethical discourse because I cannot touch you without being responsible for doing the touching, I cannot touch you without being responsive. For touch must always indicate its source, and its source can never be identiﬁed by an individual: touch is singular-plural.
Touch reminds us that bodies are impenetrable. It is my surface that I risk exposing when I reach toward you and place my hand against yours. The impenetrability of your body is what initiates this political moment wherein there can be no dream of an original sin, no drowning in a com- plete knowledge, no sense of an ultimate recognition. Touching resists these tendencies, reminding us that all gestures are incomplete, that to reach toward an other is never more (or less) than the act of reaching, for an other cannot be discovered as such. It is only your impenetrability which is penetrable. And this impenetrability is often beyond words, though not beyond language. As I touch you, there is only the saying, the reaching.
What makes touch such an interesting concept is I cannot desist trying to say what cannot be said about the body and my desire to touch it. I cannot stop touching the speech of the body. Through the gesture of touch, a political moment is exposed, a moment of transition, a moment of incomprehensibility. Within this incomprehension, my body becomes the mode of articulation. My body is the medium through which touch can be negotiated, my body is the receptor for the politico-linguistic-affectual gesture that re- minds me that my body is not one. Touch does not allow me to forget the contradiction of my body which is both “the dark reserve of sense, and the dark sign of this reserve” (Nancy 1994, 20).