Touch functions through a double genitive. I touch you twice, once in my gesture toward you and once in the experience of feeling your body, my skin against yours. You contact me. I cannot approach you tactilely without feeling that approach. I touch (you). From your body, I elicit a response, a response not necessarily felt or acknowledged through words, but through a return of the touching I initiate.
If embodiment is a precarious interplay, embodiment can also be con- ceived of as that which allows encounters to take place within a socio- historical (political) context, for a double-touching, an embodiment of touch, is a touching that can never take place unilaterally. Touch belongs ﬁrst to an other: it comes to me from an other, already addressing itself to an other. Touch instantiates an interruption, it forces me to turn toward you, not necessarily face to face, but always skin to skin, hand to ﬂesh, ﬂesh to ﬂesh. Touch is the prelude to a corpus that affects us. With touch, I enter (into communication with) you, with you I create the interval between me and you, I am moved by you and I move (with) you, but I do not become you. You are untouchable (inasmuch as there is a single “you”). What I touch is that untouchability. I negotiate that untouchability, that surface that cannot be penetrated, the unknown and (in)ﬁnite distance which sepa- rates me and you.
The surface is untouchable, yet demands to be touched. Without touch, the surface remains unarticulated, unaffected. It is the gesture toward you, the touch against your ﬂesh, which makes me accountable to you. This ges- ture renders the exchange of subjectivities plural. This plurality is poten- tially political. The incommensurability of touch, the impenetrability of the surface, the impossibility of the entre-deux, passes through a chronotope— the space-time of the body, of the corpus, of the moment—resisting any idea of place as given, of time as organ-ization. Touch creates time and space, reminding us, through every gesture, that time and space articulate this very creation rather than pre-existing it.