Book description: It is necessary to revisit the notion of "mediation" enshrined in the very term "the media" which is everywhere today. In point of fact, all “media” stage and distribute real, embodied – that is, immediate, events. This capacity to enact in the immediacy of everyday life is an integral part of their definition.  The concept of immediation entails that the cultural or technical object can no longer be abstracted from the ways in which it contributes to and is changed by the larger environment of which it is part. This complex co-habitation weaves an ecology of lived experience. Thus the theory of immediation must be ecological in the broadest sense of the word. By ecological we are referring to the term as defined by Guattari (1995, 1989). An ecological approach is one which takes as object a field of mutual influence and co-adaptation between processes that are actively shaped through that interrelation, in a complex, coordinate evolution. From a media-and-event perspective, the suggestion is that what evolves are species ofrelational events. Immediation is therefore as directly involved with the theory of the event and the philosophy of relation as it is with art and media practices.
This book seeks to engage the entwined questions of relation, event and ecology from the outside. Outside of claimed territories, nomenclature and the call to action because relation, events and their ecologies are already working and infolding such statements, names and incantations.  Immediations. Art, Media, Event asks otherwise: what are the thinking-feeling imperceptibilities that colour, contour and condition relational experience today? This book will explore qualities of relationality, spacetimes of the event and transversal fields of thinking-making through expanded research, which mobilises one and several concepts of immediation. A shudder instantly runs down the spine, pulling each vertebra to attention! Would ‘immediation’ not return us right away to: direct perception of the world, what is given in experience, the simplicity of the present and all the attendant (historical) problems? What will happen to several decades of carefully construed constructivism, to a good half-century and more of the giver and the giving, to a hundred years or so of the complex theorization of time?