Yet whereas Leonardo considers the navel  to be the point  from which  the world unfolds itself,  Zurita considers it the  point  at which  enfolding takes  place.  It is not an extensive zone  that  is created from  it and  opposed to it, but  an intensive zone in itself. Thus, in contrast to what  Leonardo does, this performance does not define  man,  nor  heaven, nor  earth.  It is not ideal,  not even  modern. It makes  no distinction between the  circle and  the  square or between heaven and  the  earth. The belly/the womb, as she stages  it, is both the circle and  the square, relative to its use. It is both heaven and  the earth  as the forms do not follow from the human body,  projecting  its  form  onto  the  world, but  are  created by  the  flows  of the event,  by its intra-active movements. Instead of enveloping the  anthropocentric space of Vitruvius, as Leonardo does,  Zuritas’ non-humanist spaces  thus  seem  to the  way  in  which   a  contemporary  architect like  Koolhaas conceptualizes  his notion of BIGNESS. Koolhaas too intends to allow  for an uncomfortable dimensionality that  is not ideal  or modern. He aspires to mobilize architecture’s full intelligence by allowing buildings to grow  beyond the (human) imaginable. Not  subscribing to what  he calls “the  humanist expectation of ‘honesty’” (1994:
501) as it supposes a transparency and  a rational logic, Koolhaas’ BIGNESS deliberately seeks  an  accumulation of  the  mystery. In  a  similar   way,  Zurita creates   what   we  might   call  a  smallness.  An  infinite   uncomfortable  smallness, mystifying the  body  of the  dancer by confronting it with  situations it has  never been  confronted with  before.  Once  again,  the  performance proves itself  to  be sadistic.  This time  it is not  because of the  perverted camera that  set itself to the unravelling of the human body.  Here,  it shows  that  the body  was de-organizing itself  all along,  always already questioning its (modernist) identity, breaking it into pieces even more.