•	Notes from Immediations meeting (May 9, 2013)
Were present at the meeting: Brian Massumi / Celine Pereira / Toni Pape / Erin Manning / Sophie Le Phat-Ho / Faiz Abhuani / Alanna Thain / Charlotte Farrell / Ronald Rose-Antoinette / Csenge Kolozsvari / Elliott Rajnovic / Katja Philipp / Leslie Plumb / Zila Muniz / Ricardo Dal Farra
1. The purpose of the meeting is to think about the Montreal-based activities.
2. How do we involve to the different community organizations? The aim is to find modes of collaborating that do not yet exist. The grant should lead to the creation of an educational model that could be an alternative to the university. 
3. A proposition for what this model could be the Three Ecologies Institute. Brian wants this to happen in a church. Alanna suggests “Death church”, Brian and Erin have talked to a person in LA (name?) who has experience setting up non-standard institutions. As a first step, they suggest to involve well-renowned, high-exposure artists (e.g. Robert Lepage, Daniel Langlois). 
4. The Senselab space: As part of the grant, Concordia has committed to giving the Senselab its own space. Erin has only just received the official letter to confirm the grant. She doesn’t expect Concordia to sort out the issue of a Senselab space before they see the money coming in. Erin will push Concordia to pay the rent for an off-campus space. Xin Wei might be pushing in the same direction for his lab. Several laboratories might share, say, a house in, say, Mile-End. Alanna: Michael (Cowan?) is trying to combine several labs at McGill to be able to use space and resources more efficiently and flexibly. Maybe this could be done across institutions? Alanna suggests we meet and learn from live/work spaces in Montreal. We need to make a list of these spaces (Death Church in Verdun…) 
5. Erin suggests that we organize meeting/site visits in the other partner institutions of the grant TAG (Lynn Hughes), Hexagram @ UQAM (Gisèle Trudel), Ricardo dal Farra’s space at Concordia 
6. An equipment pool list is suggested The Senselab has one Hexagram has one Which pieces of equipment could be shared within the grant but across institutions? 
7. A skill pool list is suggested Who knows how to design, copy-edit, in which languages, etc.? 
8. Tentative plan for the Bioscleave House event The project is to develop techniques for an emergent collectivity. The proposed concept are infestation (group movements instead of one-body-to-environment perspective). Madeline Gins proposes a luring-cradling procedure for Hamptoners. Madeline will also send us a letter with proposition to explore before we infest the Bioscleave House. (This letter will be part of her next book.) It might be very interesting to include a sound component: Hexagram has sound studios (possibly less accessible in the future) Oboro’s sound studio (possibly available for residencies) Ricardo’s Estudio de Música Electroacústica, a sound experimentation lab in Argentina 
9. Faiz asks what the involvement of Artivistic will look like? Artivistic already works on alternative schooling. They are preparing a publication on the theme of representing vs. representation among people of color. The possibilities of funding community partners include: sharing resources and skills, funds for travelling, publishing. A meeting between Artivistic members and Immediations Administrators to explore further possibilities is suggested. Generally, though, it is difficult to transfer cash amounts to community partners.