Report from the meeting with the Parc-Ex. community organizers (June 12, 2013)
Were present at the meeting:  Celine Pereira, Ronald Rose-Antoinette, Charlotte Farrell (Senselab) Martin Huturbise (Cultural organizer, City of Montreal) Prem Sooriyakumar (Concordia University) Lynn Hugues (Concordia University) Gina Haraszti (Concordia University) Louise-France Beaulieu (Library liaison) Corinne Faucher (Assistant to Cultural Events)
The meeting took place on June 12th 2013, at the Maison de la Culture de Villeray/Saint-Michel/Parc-Extension. It was primarily conducted in French, which raises interesting questions around how we and DS4SI will communicate with communities for the August event. How does language enable/hinder accessibility across communities, particularly those where French and/or English are not their first language?
Different forces and fields of intervention were sitting at the table. Some working more specifically with the 18-30 age range, others with women or children.
After a round-table introduction, Martin Huturbise, who has been designated by the City of Montreal to initiate a participatory event within the communities of Parc-Extension, moderated the discussion. Martin works at the Maison de la Culture and is in charge of the program Hors les Murs. The aim of the project is to be a prototype which can be extended to other areas in Montreal such as Petite-Italie or other areas for example.
On the agenda: choose one project out of the two presented by Lynn and Prem.  The idea, as Martin was saying, is to “mobilize the maximum of citizens” from the different communities living in Parc-Ex (more than 120) around a single project/activity. The true intentions or motivations being not only to dissolve the feelings of exclusion, isolation, uselessness, that some have and express on a regular basis, but also to talk about the history of Parc-Ex, its dynamics, its movements and stories. The activity is concomitant to a wider initiative taken by the City of Montreal entitled “Chacun son histoire”.
The first participatory project involved a food-making process which is where Lynn and Prem expressed resonance with the SenseLab; the second, an online videogame popular within the young adults called MineCraft (https://minecraft.net/). As some of the people present at the table were stating, food reaches a wider population, it goes across all generations. It’s fun, manual, seductive and (except on rare occasions) satisfactory.
We listened carefully to both projects presentations. The project on food was the one that metabolized the largest consensus, as there were some concerns that MineCraft would only appeal to a certain portion of the population, namely the 18-30 age group (which nonetheless constitutes more than 50% of the population), excluding other generations that have no idea how to use the technology. The activity around food is also more mobile. In contradistinction, the young adults are expected to be less interested or involved in the food-making process, than in eating the food when it’s ready. Young adults and teenagers are often less patient and enthusiastic toward the process. It is likely less exciting as an activity in their eyes. One of the people sitting at the table, Sonia, mentioned a previous “collective kitchen” experimentation she had with children. This is something they are going to provide us with more information about, as there have been collective kitchen’s conducted in the ParcEx community previously. Lynn and Prem then inspected a kitchen onsite. We’re looking forward to hearing more about this.
For Lynn and Prem’s project, groups will be formed (young adults?) and asked to collect recipes (audio&video recordings of how to make such or such dish), will post them on a website designed for that occasion. Merchants, neighbors, pedestrians, will be interviewed and invited to share their favorite recipes. This is where we mentioned the previous work the SenseLab did with the SAT event, where we involved a Mile End/Outremont merchant to assist us in gathering fruit for our string-dying experimentation.
Several tangents were expressed with the collect of recipes: -do a recipe’s virtual map with infos such as photos or stories to express from where the recipes are from (locate a corner for example) -to situate recipes in a timeline with the preferences of different generations to notice the little changes in the recipes through the situation in North America that sometimes do not provide the original ingredients.  -the deconstruction of the recipes to emphasize the ingredients and their different locations in the neighborhood or in the city. -to locate where ingredients are cultivated in the different community gardens.
A visit of the community gardens is also planned. It was suggested to create a Parc-Ex Youtube channel—if not existing already—(where the videos can be posted). In so doing, there are expectations that the participants feel proud of what they’re doing. Many communities, and especially new immigrants, would be surprised and happy to realize they have more ingredients, spices and food practices in common than they thought. Two recipes can look very different but use the same ingredients. Food is a convivial way of introducing and tasting a piece of someone’s culture.
In 2010, the district of Parc-Extension celebrated its 100th anniversary. As someone said during the meeting, “now it’s time to think about the future”.
Although we were not active during the decision-making process per se, we were very attentive to what was expressed (concerns, hopes, apprehensions, etc.). We shared our enthusiasm following their decision.
It led us to a description of our Public Kitchen Event in August, in collaboration with the DS4SI. The emphasis was put on the potential for collaboration and participation, as both Immediations and the Parc-Ex community partners have similar interests. Also, Charlotte gave weight to our proposition by mentioning Mike Hornblow’s performance in Indonesia and Australia, and our previous experiment with the “lack of information booth” in relation to Society of Molecules. Then, after our description, Martin asked, “how are we going to do that?”, concerned about the resistance we might find on the part of the Hassidic communities in Outremont. We don’t know how, but we know we will learn from the experience, we will perceive the procedures in their incipient forms. But this is a crucial question: how are we going to do that?
The group recognizes and values our initiative and is happy to share its experiences and knowledge. Louise-France Beaulieu and Martin gave us their contact informations. They will provide us with informations on the neighborhood and coming activities, getting us in touch with people that might be of help for our project.
Some information worth considering, as we are not decided yet about the date of the Public Kitchen Event: on August 15th the Indian community will celebrate the 67th Independence Day of India. Several festivities will take place on that occasion.
In general, the meeting was felt as a first movement exploration, a movement of thought that has to re-occur in its difference: it’s an added value to know what they’re doing and also to let them know what we’re doing, to know that something is happening in the neighborhood.
The outcome is overall positive. Our event will not overlap with their activities (planned for late september-beginning of october).
A new meeting with Lynn and Prem, on Tuesday the 18th, was convened.
Talk by Susanne Schmitt: “Ethnographies of coldness and immersion: Museum climates and underwater worlds” (June 12, 2013)
What does it feel like to work in a medical history museum that puts the body at center stage? What does it sound like to be immersed in an underwater world at aquariums where the forms of life you watch are actually completely inaudible to you?
In her work, Susanne Schmitt is interested in the atmospheres and experiential politics of spaces that disseminate worldviews on human and non-human bodies and ways of life – science and medical history museums and public aquariums. Her examination of these spaces draws on sensory and experimental ethnography and the anthropology of the senses. She wonders what physical, sensorial and affective settings that narrate the living want you to feel like - and thus what or who they want you to feel for as well. In this talk, coldness, warmth, intimacy, immersion and regionalism/ethnicity are being presented as design strategies and as actual experiences in and of such sites. The stories told unfold at a famous German science and medical history museum and at large public aquariums in Germany and China. Tinkering with ethnographic methods such as soundscaping, video-ethnography, collage and apprenticeship – learning to do stuff – the talk addresses how ethnographers co-create and re-politicize atmospheres.
 
Susanne Schmitt is a social and cultural anthropologist. She received her PhD in 2011 (University of Munich). Since then she worked as research associate at the Munich Universities’ Sociology Department where she organized series of events that brought the intersections of gender studies, queer theory, artistic intervention and pop culture to both uni and town. In her newest project whose contours she is currently exploring at the Sense Lab, she is working ethnographically and artistically with people who build underwater worlds at public aquariums and consumer spaces.